STARTED.
>> WELCOME TO THE APRIL TWENTY
SIXTH.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING.
I'M CANDACE PRIOR CHAIRPERSON
OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IS
A NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE'LL HEAR FROM PLANNING
SERVICES REPRESENTED TONIGHT BY
JOHN BARRETT AND THE APPLICANT
OR THEIR REPRESENTATIVE WILL
MAKE THEIR PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION STAFF WILL KEEP
TIME AND WILL ANNOUNCE WHEN 30
SECONDS ARE REMAINING PUBLIC
COMMENT IS AVAILABLE IN PERSON
OR REMOTELY.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISE AND FEATURE IF
YOU WILL THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING ID NINE THREE EIGHT ONE
SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO ZERO
SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD
.
WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT ON A
TIMELY BASIS.
ROLL CALL I AM HERE TODD GRANT
I AM HERE DAVE DAVE ALREADY UH
DAVE ALREADY HERE.
>> CHRIS MADIGAN JULIA GOOD
HERE GRACE WHITNEY HERE.
MCDANIEL HERE.
AKMAN HERE.
CHRISTINA GUZIK YOU'RE WE HAVE
A QUORUM MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA.
I WILL NOTE QUICKLY THAT
PETITION NUMBER ZIBA TWENTY
THREE DASH ZERO ZERO ZERO SEVEN
FOUR EIGHT NINETY WEST
EISENHAUER THE PETITIONER HAS
WITHDRAWN THAT APPLICATION.
SO BECAUSE
IT WAS PUBLIC NOTICE
WE WILL TAKE ANY PUBLIC COMMENT
FROM ANYONE WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
ON THAT PETITION BUT THERE WILL
BE NO PRESENTATION AND WE WON'T
BE VOTING ON IT BECAUSE THE
PETITION HAS BEEN WITHDRAWN
ALSO I WILL NOTE FOR ME
PERSONALLY REGARDING PETITIONS
EBAY TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO
ZERO ZERO NINE FORTY EIGHT
IGLESIA HILLS DRIVE THE
REPRESENTATIVE FOR THAT PROJECT
MIDWESTERN CONSULTING IS THE
COMPANY THAT I WORK FOR.
SO IT'S NOT A PROJECT THAT I'M
FAMILIAR WITH OR I'VE WORKED ON
SO I DON'T THINK I HAVE A
CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
BUT IF THE BOARD DEEMS
OTHERWISE I'M HAPPY TO RECUSE
MYSELF WHEN WE GET TO THAT
POINT.
>> SO JUST LET ME KNOW
OTHERWISE.
>> ANY OTHER COMMENTS ON THE
AGENDA?
>> DO I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA?
THANK YOU DERMO SUPPORT FROM MY
THANK YOU ALL IN FAVOR I ALMOST
MOVING ON TO APPROVAL OF THE
MINUTES WE HAVE MINUTES FROM
THE MARCH.
TWENTY SECOND TWENTY TWENTY
THREE ZEBA MEETING ARE THERE
ANY QUESTIONS, COMMENTS,
CORRECTIONS REGARDING THOSE
MINUTES IF NOT A MOTION TO
APPROVE JUST MINUTES FROM
MARCH.
THANK YOU JULIA.
SUPPORT SUPPORT.
>> THANK YOU ALL IN FAVOR.
I OPPOSE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS
FIRST WE HAVE PETITIONS A
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO
ZERO SIX SIX NINETEEN FOR ST.
JOHN.
I'M JOHN BARRETT, ZONING
COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY
VANOVER THE FIRST PETITION
BEFORE US THIS EVENING IS TZVIA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO
ZERO SIX SIX NINETEEN FELT
STREET DAVID LEWIS REPRESENTING
THE PROPERTY OWNERS IS
REQUESTING ONE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY THREE SQUARE FOOT OR
SEVENTEEN POINT FOUR PERCENT
VARIANCE FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT SIXTEEN POINT SIX
SUBSECTION D TO CONSTRUCT A NEW
DECK AND THE REAR YARD THAT
WILL EXCEED THE MAXIMUM
ALLOWABLE THIRTY FIVE PERCENT
REAR SETBACK COVERAGE.
THE APPLICANTS ARE REQUESTING
RELIEF FROM SECTION FIVE POINT
THIRTY TWO POINT TWO ALTERATION
TO A NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
ENCLOSE THE FIRST AND SECOND
FLOOR EXTERIOR DECKS AND
CONVERT TO HABITABLE SPACE THE
PROPERTY IS ZONED OUT TO A TWO
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF FELT
STREET BETWEEN MINOR STREET AND
FOUNTAIN STREET.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
THIRTY AND IS APPROXIMATELY ONE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED TWENTY
EIGHT SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
THE LOT IS NONCONFORMING FOR
THE DISTRICT AS IT DOES NOT
MEET THE AREA FIVE THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET FOR THE DISTRICT.
THE EXISTING FIRST AND SECOND
OR SECOND FLOOR DECKS OCCUPIED
TWENTY SQUARE FEET OR TEN
SQUARE FEET PER FLOOR INTO THE
REQUIRED TWENTY FOUR REAR YARD
SETBACK.
THE DECKS ARE 18 FEET FIVE
INCHES FROM THE REAR LINE.
THE FIRST FLOOR DECK WILL BE
ENCLOSED AND CONVERTED INTO A
DINING ROOM.
THE SECOND FLOOR DECK WILL BE
ENCLOSED AND CONVERTED INTO A
MASTER BATH AND WALK IN CLOSET.
THE NEW DECK BEING PROPOSED IS
APPROXIMATELY TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
FIVE SQUARE FEET AND WILL BE
SIX FEET SIX INCHES FROM THE
REAR OUTLINE THE DECK AND THE
EXISTING DETACHED GARAGE TOTAL
FIVE HUNDRED TWENTY SQUARE FEET
OF FOOTPRINT AREA.
THE REAR YARD IS NINE HUNDRED
AND NINETY TWO SQUARE FEET AND
AREA THE DECK GARAGE WILL
OCCUPY FIFTY FIFTY TWO POINT
FOUR PERCENT OF REAR SET AREA
WHEN THIRTY FIVE PERCENT IS
PERMITTED THE DECK WILL REQUIRE
THE SEVENTEEN POINT FOUR
PERCENT VARIANCE OR ONE HUNDRED
SEVENTY THREE SQUARE FEET
OF AREA
.
JUST ONE MOMENT WE'RE DOING
SOME SHEAR SCREEN
.
ALL RIGHT, THE FIRST SLIDE IS
THE ZONING MAP AND YOU SEE THE
HIGHLIGHTED SUBJECT PROPERTY IN
THE YELLOW IN THE CENTER
OF YOUR SCREEN AND I DO NOT
THERO KEYBOARD'S ACTING UP THIS
EVENING.
THE SECOND SLIDE IS THE AREA
MAP.
YOU SEE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
AND SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOODS
AND EXISTING CONDITIONS.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY AND YOU CAN SEE THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN DETACHED
GARAGE IN THE HOME.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS A SITE PLAN THAT WAS
SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION
AND YOU CAN SEE THE
RELATIONSHIP OF THE
NONCONFORMING RESIDENTS THAT'S
PRAKRITI INTO THAT BAKARY SET
BACK LINE AND THAT'S WHERE THIS
FIRST AND SECOND FLOOR DECK ARE
ENCROACHING AND THAT'S THE
ALTERATION AND THEN WE'LL SEE
THE DECK IN A MINUTE.
>> THERE'S THE DECK THE HASHD
THE HASHED AREA IS SHOWING THE
TWENTY SQUARE FEET TEN SQUARE
FEET PER FLOOR AND THEN YOU SEE
THE NEW DECK BEING PROPOSED AND
THE COMBINATION OF THE DECK AND
THE EXISTING DETACHED GARAGE
EXCEED THAT ALLOWABLE THIRTY
PERCENT FOOTPRINT.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS SHOWING THE
ENCLOSURE OF THE HANDLE SPACE
ON THE FIRST FLOOR AND THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOWING THE ENCLOSED
HABITABLE SPACE ON THE SECOND
FLOOR THE BASE OF THE BATHROOM
NEXT SLIDE IS A ROOF PLAN
OF THE PROPOSED ALTERATION AND
THE EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS BEING
PROPOSED.
YOU SEE THE FRONT NOTHING IS
BEING IMPACTED ON THE FRONT AND
THEN THE EXTERIOR YOU SEE FROM
NOT SURE WHICH DIRECTION THAT
IS.
THE THING IS THE LEFT SIDE AND
THEN THE REAR EXTERIOR AND THE
ELEVATION THESE ARE THE PHOTOS
I TOOK ON THE INSPECTION OF MY
SITE SEE THE FRONT FACADE
OF THE EXISTING RESIDENTS.
>> THIS IS LOOKING DOWN THE
DRIVEWAY AT THE EXISTING
DETACHED GARAGE AND THIS IS THE
PREPARATION WORK BEING DONE FOR
SOME OF THE THE ALTERATION
LOOKING UP.
THIS IS THE OR THE FIRST AND
SECOND FLOOR OUT.
WE'RE LOCATED LOOKING DIRECTLY
AT THE FIRST AND SECOND FLOOR
AREA TO THAT'S BEEN ALTERED.
SECOND STORY OF THE PROPOSED
ALTERATION.
THIS IS PART OF THE PROJECT
LOOKING ON THE ONE SIDE THAT
DOESN'T REQUIRE VARIANCE OR AN
ALTERATION.
IT MEETS THE SETBACKS AND THIS
IS LOOKING AT THE REAR YARD.
YOU SEE THE DETACHED GARAGE IN
THE BACKGROUND AND THIS IS
WHERE THE PROPOSED BACK WILL BE
AND THESE THIS IS WHAT THE
FIRST AND SECOND FLOOR
STRUCTURE OF THE DECK LOOK
LOOKED LIKE PREVIOUSLY PHOTOS
THAT WERE SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT AND THAT'S LOOKING
DIRECTLY AT THE NEIGHBOR TO THE
EAST AND SOUTH.
THIS IS WHERE THE DUCK WOULD BE
AND THAT'S THE END OF MY
PRESENTATION AND I WILL TAKE
ANY QUESTIONS YOU HAVE AT THIS
TIME.
>> THANK YOU, JOHN.
QUESTIONS TEN JOHN
DIRIGO.
SO IN ADDITION TO EXCEEDING THE
REAR SETBACK COVERAGE, WILL THE
NEW DECK AT SIX FEET SIX INCHES
FROM THE REAR LINE ALSO BE TOO
CLOSE TO THE REAR A LOT NOW THE
DECK IS AN ACCESSORY STRUCTURE
AND HAS A LOT GO UP TO THREE
FEET FROM A SIDE A RARE LIGHT
ONE GUY.
RIGHT.
THANK CHRISTINA.
SO ALL THE WORK THAT'S
CURRENTLY UNDER CONSTRUCTION
MEETS ALL SETBACKS.
THERE'S NOTHING THAT THE IF YOU
LOOK AT THE SCREEN THE EXISTING
PORTION OF THE HOUSE RIGHT HERE
YOU SEE WELL THAT'S DASH LINE.
THAT'S THE EXISTING 20 FOOT
REAR THAT BACK THAT'S ALREADY
ENCROACHING INTO THE SET BACK.
SO IT'S NOT CONFORMING AND IN
ORDER TO ENCLOSE IT AND MAKE IT
HAVE A LITTLE SPACE, THEY'RE
NOT INCREASING THE
NONCONFORMITY BUT THEY'RE
ENCLOSED IT CREATING HANDLE
SPACE WHICH REQUIRES AN
ALTERATION FROM THIS BOARD.
OK, SO THEY'RE NOT EXPANDING
THE FOOTPRINT OF THAT.
THEY'RE JUST REMOVING A DECK
AND MAKING IT THAT FIRST FLOOR
AND SECOND FLOOR LIVING SPACE.
>> OK, BUT ALL THE WORK THAT'S
CURRENTLY I MEAN IT'S UNDER
CONSTRUCTION RIGHT NOW.
>> NOTHING GOES AGAINST THAT
WHOLE APPROACH.
I MEAN THAT THEY CAN IN TO
UNDERTAKE THE REVIEW THEY CAN
REMOVE THE DUCTS IF THE BOARD
DOESN'T APPROVE IT TONIGHT,
THEN THEY'LL HAVE TO MAKE AN
ADJUSTMENT TO THOSE PLAN.
>> BUT THEY KNEW THAT THIS WAS
HAPPENING.
THIS WAS THIS PROCESS HOW IT'S
UNFOLDING WAS UNDERSTOOD.
>> YES.
EVERYTHING EVERYTHING WAS YEAH.
THAT'S MADE AWARE TO THE
APPLICANTS DURING THE PLAN
REVIEW PROCESS.
>> OK, THANK YOU DAVE.
>> SO I'M THINKING THAT THERE
MIGHT BE A PURPOSE.
I KNOW WE HAVE A ORDINANCES
ABOUT IMPERMEABLE SURFACE
TO
PROMOTE MORE ABILITY
OF RAINWATER TO PERCOLATE INTO
GROUNDWATER IN THE DESERT, HAVE
ANY IMPACT ON ANY OF THE
IMPERMEABLE SURFACE AREA.
IS THAT CONSIDERED SINCE THERE
WOULD STILL BE GROUND UNDER IT
THAT WATER COULD GO INTO WOULD
THAT COUNT AS TEMPORARY?
>> SO THE SECTION OF CODE AND
THE ORDINANCE THE FIVE SIXTEEN
POINT SIX ETC. BUILDINGS AND
STRUCTURES DOESN'T ADDRESS
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE THAT'S
COVERED BY THE LAND DEVELOPMENT
COORDINATOR AND SYSTEM
PLANNING.
RIGHT.
BUT IT'S JUST THE FOOTPRINT AND
THE OCCUPYING YARD SETBACK IS A
QUESTION HERE.
I JUST I'M JUST THINKING OF THE
PURPOSES OF THE CITY'S
ORDINANCES AND ITS VARIOUS
WAYS.
ONE OF THE THINGS WE'RE TRYING
TO DO IS TO REDUCE THE AMOUNT
OF IMPERMEABLE SURFACE TO
REDUCE THE AMOUNT
OF GROUNDWATER THAT RUNS INTO
OUR STORM SEWERS RIGHT.
AND I'M WONDERING IF THE DECK
HAS ANY IMPACT ON THAT.
IT WILL WILL THERE STILL BE THE
CAPABILITY I MEAN HAS ANYBODY
LOOKED AT STORMWATER RUNOFF SO
THEY WON'T HAVE TO FOREDECK?
>> OK, THAT DOESN'T TOTALLY
ANSWER MY QUESTION.
WELL, THAT WOULD SHOW THIS.
IT'S ALSO ABOUT NOT ONLY
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE, IT'S ALSO
ABOUT STRUCTURES IN THE REAR
SETBACK BACK AND TOTAL AMOUNT
OF STRUCTURE COVERAGE IN THE
YARD AND ACTIVITY AND USE AND
SO THE ZONING ORDINANCE FOR
THIS TYPE OF STRUCTURE DOESN'T
COVER THAT.
THAT WOULD BE THEY WOULD HAVE
TO IF THE LAND DEVELOPMENT
COORDINATOR REQUIRES A SOIL
EROSION PERMIT THEN HE WOULD
REQUIRE THAT FOR THIS DECK THAT
I'M NOT SURE AT THAT TIME THE
APPLICANT CAN SPEAK TO THAT IF
THEY WERE REQUIRED TO OBTAIN
ONE OF THOSE.
OK, THANK YOU MA'AM.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONER IS HERE,
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD.
YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS DAVID LEWIS.
I AM THE ARCHITECT FOR THE JOB
.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M DEBORAH MOORE.
CUSTOM DESIGN BUILD THE BUILDER
OF THE JOB.
I'M JUST HERE IF I MAY CLARIFY
PRISTINA'S QUESTION WE DID
RECEIVE A BUILDING PERMIT THAT
DID NOT THAT DESIGN THAT WE
SUBMITTED FOR A PERMIT DID NOT
REQUIRE ANY APPROVAL FROM THE
ZIEBA AND THAT'S WHAT'S UNDER
CONSTRUCTION.
SO WE WE APPLIED FOR A PERMIT,
GOT THE PERMIT THAT WORK IS
UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND HOW
TYCHO'S WILL DETERMINE WHAT WE
DO WITH THE DESIGN AND
EVERYTHING THAT'S GOING TO
CLARIFY.
SO THERE'S TWO DIMENSIONAL
SPACE.
MAKE SURE IT'S CLEAR THAT
THERE'S TWO DIFFERENT ITEMS WE
ARE SEEKING TONIGHT.
ONE IS THE PERMISSION TO ALTER
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE THAT
HAS TO DO WITH ENCLOSING THE
EXISTING REAR PORCH OR DECK THE
FIRST AND SECOND FLOOR AND THE
OTHER IS IS A VARIANCE FOR THE
NEW DECK.
SO I WANT TO ADDRESS THOSE TWO
THINGS SEPARATELY.
THE INCLOSING OF THE EXISTING
PORCH AS YOU HAND THE PHOTOS,
THIS HOUSE HAS THIS TWO STOREY
PORCH IN THE BACK WITH A ROOF
OVER IT.
WE'RE NOT TOUCHING THE ROOF.
IT'S AN EXISTING ROOF THAT
WE'RE JUST KIND OF FILLING THE
SPACE BELOW AND THE VAST
MAJORITY OF THE DECKS THAT
WE'RE FILLING IN ARE BEYOND
LINE LINES.
THAT'S NOT EVEN A QUESTION.
IT'S REAL.
IT'S JUST LITERALLY THE LAST 18
INCHES AS I MENTIONED, IT'S TEN
SQUARE FEET ON THE FIRST FLOOR
AND TEN SQUARE FEET ON THE
SECOND FLOOR THAT IS OVER THE
REGRET'S LINE AND THIS IS AN
INCREDIBLY SMALL LOT MUCH
SMALLER THAN MOST OF THE LOTS
IN THE IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORHOOD.
AND THEN THE OTHER ITEM THAT'S
ACTUALLY THE VARIANCE IS THE
NEW DECK IN THE BACKYARD AND
THE DECK ITSELF BY ITSELF DOES
NOT EXCEED THE MAXIMUM COVERAGE
OR THE YARD.
IT'S ONLY WHEN YOU COMBINE THE
NEW DECK WITH THE EXISTING
DETACHED LARGE THE EXISTING
DETACHED GARAGE HAS BEEN THERE
FROM BEFORE THE CURRENT OWNER
BOUGHT THE HOUSE AND THE MAJOR
POINT OF ALL THIS WHAT WE'RE
DOING NOW IS TO TRY AND MAKE
THIS AGING IN PLACE HOME FOR
THE HOMEOWNER AND HAVING A DECK
THAT SHE CAN WALK OUT TO
WITHOUT HAVING TO GO DOWN
SEVERAL STEPS WOULD REALLY GO A
LONG WAY IN MAKING HER BACKYARD
MUCH MORE USABLE FOR YEARS TO
COME.
YOU KNOW, IF THIS ISN'T
APPROVED, WE'RE GOING TO DO A
PATIO ON GRAYED SO THE ACTUAL
FROM A NEIGHBORS POINT OF VIEW,
THE ACTUAL USE OF THE YARD IS
REALLY NOT CHANGING WHETHER
THERE'S A DECK THERE OR A
PATIO, IT JUST IS GOING TO MAKE
THE HOMEOWNERS LIFE A BIT MORE
COMPLICATED.
I HAVE TO WALK UP DOWN STEPS
EVERY TIME SHE WANTS TO GO TO
HER BACKYARD.
AND THE OTHER THING I WANT TO
MENTION WAS THAT I THE THIRTY
FIVE PERCENT RULE I THINK IT'S
COMPLETELY APPROPRIATE FOR
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES THAT ARE
ACTUALLY LIKE LIKE A GARAGE
LIKE I TOTALLY UNDERSTAND WHY
YOU WOULDN'T WANT A BACKYARD
FILLED MORE THIRTY FIVE PERCENT
WITH A GARAGE OR OTHER KIND
OF SHED BUT I FEEL LIKE A DECK
IS JUST IT'S KIND OF NOT THE
SAME AS THE GARAGE OR SHED YOU
KNOW IT'S NOT REALLY BLOCKING
ANYONE'S VIEW BLOCKING ACCESS
TO LIGHT OR AIR SO I REALLY
FEEL LIKE IT'S A DIFFERENT
ANIMAL AND AGAIN LIKE I SAID
IT'S THE DECK BY ITSELF IF
MEANT FOR THE DETACHED GARAGE
OF THE DEMOCRATS DIDN'T EXIST.
WE WOULDN'T NEED A VARIANCE FOR
THIS DECK.
DOES EVERYBODY HAVE THE LETTERS
FROM THE NEIGHBORS IN THEIR
POCKET?
>> SO IN THE SNAPSHOTS THAT
JOHN SHOWED OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD, ALL THREE
NEIGHBORS IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT
TO LEAVE HIS HOUSE IS ARE NOT
ONLY APPROVING BUT
ENTHUSIASTICALLY APPROVING
OF THIS.
WE DO THINK IT'S A HARDSHIP
THAT THE LOT IS SO SMALL
COMPARED TO THE OTHER LOTS IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> WHAT WE ALSO ARE THINKING IS
THAT BECAUSE THE ZONING CHANGE
HERE WAS REALLY TO INCREASE
DENSITY IS MY UNDERSTANDING FOR
THIS AREA.
SO WE'RE ENHANCING GREEN SPACE
AND MY THINKING THERE ARE
THINKING THERE WAS THAT THIS IS
REALLY ACTIVE ENHANCING THE USE
OF THE PROPERTY IN THE INDOOR
OUTDOOR RELATIONSHIP, THE
PROPERTY THERE'S A PRIVACY
FENCE AROUND THE WHOLE THING.
>> AGAIN, THE NEIGHBORS ARE
ENTHUSIASTS.
WE'RE HOPING THAT YOU'LL BUT
YOU'LL THINK THIS IS A GOOD USE
OF A VARIANCE IN THIS CASE.
ANY QUESTIONS?
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS TODD WITH A QUESTION
THAT'S QUITE RIGHT WAS WITH
FROM COULD YOU HEAR ME NOW?
I DON'T KNOW WHETHER THIS IS
APPROPRIATE FOR ME IS MORE MR.
LEWIS, BUT REGARDING THE, THE
NOTE IS THAT THE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES ARE ESSENTIALLY
NEEDING TO WALK DOWN SEVERAL
STEPS TO THE DECK BUT WHEN I
READ THAT I WAS THINKING WELL
THIS IS A TWO STORY HOME SO THE
OWNER IS GOING TO HAVE TO BE UP
AND DOWN STEPS ALL THE TIME
ANYWAY.
WELL, IF ANOTHER ALTERNATIVE IS
REALLY A PETTY ONE GRADE I
DON'T REALLY SEE THE NECESSITY
FOR A NEW DECK.
>> THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION
ACTUALLY ONE OF THE REASONS
WE'RE PUTTING THE WEST ADDITION
ON IS TO CREATE A FIRST FLOOR
MASTER SUITE IN THE EVENT THAT
THEY CANNOT USE THE STAIRS.
>> SO THAT PUTS EVERYTHING ON
ONE FLOOR ON ONE LEVEL I WANT
TO MAKE SURE I UNDERSTAND YOUR
COMMENT SO THE BIT THE MASTER
BEDROOM SUITE WOULD OPEN UP
ONTO THE DECK IMMEDIATELY AND
THEY COULD EXIT THE HOUSE
QUICKLY ADDRESS IT.
>> IT WOULDN'T OPEN UP
IMMEDIATELY ONTO THE DECK.
BUT THE POINT IS THE THE
ADDITION WE'RE DOING IS
PROVIDING A FUTURE.
IT'S GOING TO BE AN OFFICE FOR
NOW AND IN A BEDROOM IN THE
FUTURE RIGHT NOW THIS HOUSE
DOESN'T HAVE ANY SHOWER BATH
TUB ON THE FIRST FLOOR.
IT'S A PART OF THE WHAT WE'RE
DOING IS ADDING A SHOWER,
MAKING THE BATHROOM BIGGER SO
THE IDEA IS THE HOMEOWNER COULD
LIVE ON JUST THE FIRST FLOOR IF
SHE MUST DONE ALTERATIONS TO
NONCONFORMING USES ARE PRETTY
EASY.
NO, I DON'T HAVE A PROBLEM WITH
THAT AT ALL.
I DO HAVE ONE MORE QUESTION
REGARDING THE DECK FROM THE
FIRST FLOOR OF THE HOUSE TO THE
YARD WITHOUT THE DECK.
HOW MANY FEET DOWN IS THAT?
>> IT'S ABOUT TWO FEET.
OK, IF WE PUT THE PATIO AND
WE'RE PROBABLY GOING TO RAISE
IT UP, YOU KNOW, SIX, EIGHT
INCHES ANYWAY.
>> SO WE'RE REALLY TALKING
ABOUT A DELTA MAYBE 15 TO 18
INCHES IN HEIGHT.
>> THINK ANY OTHER QUESTION
SHOULD MENTION TOO THAT YOU HAD
MENTIONED DAVE ABOUT THE
PERVIOUS IMPERVIOUS
IMPLICATIONS FOR THE PROPERTY.
WHAT WE DISCOVERED WHEN WE DID
THE DIGGING WHICH WAS A REAL
DELIGHTFUL SCENARIO FOR US WAS
THAT THE SOIL GROUP THAT THIS
IS SITTING ON IS IS A SOIL
GROUP ONE WHICH IS EXTREMELY
SANDY AND VERY PERVIOUS.
WE WERE THINKING THAT EVEN
THOUGH WE DIDN'T EXCEED THE
LIMIT THAT WE NEEDED TO TRIGGER
MORE SITE WORK FOR PERVIOUS
SURFACES THAT WE WOULD WANT TO
PUT IN A YOU KNOW, SOME SORT
OF A SWALE OR OR A RAIN GARDEN
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT JUST
BECAUSE WE DO THAT THINGS THAT
WAY.
>> BUT IN THIS CASE WE DON'T
EVEN NEED AND SO THE DECK AS
WELL IS GOING TO HAVE OPENINGS
IN IT.
YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT GOING TO BE
A TIGHT SURFACE WHERE WATER
WILL GO THROUGH AND PERCOLATE
INTO THE GROUND AND WE'VE
ACTUALLY BEEN WATCHING THAT AS
THIS RAIN HAS COME UP JUST TO
SEE WHAT WE GET AGAINST THAT
SILT FENCE.
NOTHING.
SO ANYWAY, I ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR THE PETITIONER
RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC
WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION, PLEASE COME FORWARD
NOW IF THERE'S ANYONE ACCESSING
A MEETING REMOTELY NOW'S THE
TIME TO PRESS STAR NINE
TO
RAISE YOUR HAND OR USE THE RACE
HAND FEATURE IF YOU ARE
ACCESSING VIA THE WEB LINK.
>> YES, I WILL NOTE THAT WE DID
RECEIVE SEVERAL LETTERS
OF SUPPORT UM I CANNOT READ THE
NAME ON THIS ONE.
IT'S FROM THE OWNER AT 615
FILCH.
SORRY I CAN'T READ THE NAME ON
THEIR LETTER.
>> I COULD I JUST HOMEOWNERS
ARE HERE AND THEY HAVE A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS FOR YOU IF THAT'S
RIGHT.
IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS FOR IF
YOU HAVE QUESTIONS FOR THEM OH
ANSWER THEM OK THANK YOU.
ONE OF THE ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT'S HAPPENING I SHOULD
MENTION IS THAT THESE TWO ARE
COMBINING FAMILIES.
THEY'RE THEY'RE ACTUALLY
ENGAGED AND WILL BE GETTING
MARRIED IN OCTOBER .
SO THEY'RE BRINGING TWO
FAMILIES TO THIS AREA AS WELL.
THIS HOUSE.
>> SO PART OF THIS EXPANSION IS
DRIVEN BY THAT AS WELL.
THANK YOU.
SO LETTERS OF SUPPORT FROM
CHRISTIE AND JANU BAKIN FROM
SCOTT GALANT AND JENNIFER
GARLAND AND FROM DANIEL
ROSENBAUM ANTEROOMS TERRANS
ROOTES AND THERE'S ONE MORE
HERE FROM BYTHEWOOD TULLAH AND
STEPH KOEPKA I'M HEARING
THERE'S NO ONE IN THE WANTS TO
SPEAK FROM THE PUBLIC.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT SAID, THE PUBLIC
HEARINGS CLOSED AND WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION
.
>> OK, JULIA, I WAS WAITING FOR
ANOTHER HIT REALLY I COULD GO
FOR ANY OF THIS TIME YOU I
THINK IT'S THE GENERAL THE
ALTERATION YOU KNOW THERE
DOESN'T SEEM TO BE ANY
OBJECTION TO DOING IT THAT I
HAVE HEARD SO FAR THE VARIANCE
EVEN THOUGH IT SEEMS LIKE A
VERY REASONABLE PLAN, I'M NOT
SURE THAT IT'S HITTING ANY
OF THE CRITERIA.
>> IT IS A SMALL LOT THE LOT
NEXT DOOR IS ACTUALLY A REALLY
WEIRD LOT BUT IT'S JUST SMALL
LIKE IT'S NOT THE THE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES.
MAYBE THERE'S SOME WITH THE
STEPS I MEAN I'M NOT ALL THAT
SURE THAT IT REALLY MEETS THE
CRITERIA FOR A VARIANCE SO I'D
LIKE TO HEAR OTHER PEOPLE.
CAN I HAVE A QUESTION REAL
QUICK RELATED TO THAT SO THE
DEC FACTORS INTO THE PERCENT
COVERAGE IN THE REAR WITH A
PATIO NOT NO.
THE DECK IS CONSIDERED AN
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
IT'S ATTACHED TO THE HOME AND
PATIOS OR BRICK PAVERS PATIOS
OR DRIVEWAYS ARE ALL THAT POOR
THAT GRADE AND THEY'RE NOT
CONSIDERED STRUCTURES NO, THEY
DON'T REQUIRE BUILDING PERMITS
AND SO THEY'RE NOT CONSIDERED
PART OF THAT EQUATION.
OK, THAT'S WEIRD BUT I GET IT I
GUESS.
THANKS AS A DECK AS AN
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE BY
DEFINITION IT'S ACCESSORY TO
THE PRINCIPAL USE TOTALLY
DIFFERENT THAN A PATIO.
ALL RIGHT.
I'LL BE DEFINITELY SUPPORTING
THE OR THE ALTERATION I SEE NO
PROBLEMS WITH THAT.
I'LL ALSO BE SUPPORTING THE
VARIANCE FOR THE DECK WHATEVER
PURPOSES THE OUR ORDINANCE HAVE
TO NOT TO KEEP THAT OPEN SPACE
OR SEEM TO ME IRRELEVANT IN
THIS CASE GIVEN THE NATURE
OF THE SOILS AND THE FACT THAT
STORMWATER RUNOFF WILL BE EASY
TO TAKE CARE OF ON THE SITE.
I BELIEVE THERE IS A PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY BASED ON THE
HISTORIC DIVISIONS OF LIGHT
DIVISIONS IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
AND THE SIZE OF THE LOT I I SEE
THAT THAT IS IN AND OF ITSELF A
PECULIAR EXCEPTION.
IT IS NOT COMMON.
THERE ARE OTHER NEIGHBORHOODS
THAT HAVE SIMILAR PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES BUT I SEE THAT
THAT JUST HEAR THE NUMBER
OF LETTERS AND PEOPLE WHO HAVE
SPOKEN AND WRITTEN US IN
SUPPORT AND COME TO ATTEND OUR
MEETING ALSO SPEAKS TO ME TWO
STANDARD THREE ALLOWING THE
VARIANCE WILL RESULT IN
SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE BEING DONE
CONSIDERING THE PUBLIC BENEFITS
OF THE ZONING ORDINANCE.
THE PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES THAT
WILL BE SUFFERED BY FAILURE TO
GRANT A VARIANCE AND THE RIGHTS
OF OTHERS WHOSE PROPERTY WOULD
BE AFFECTED BY ALLOWING THE
VARIANCE.
AND I SEE ALL THAT OUTPOURING
OF SUPPORT IS DIRECTLY SPEAKING
TO THAT STANDARD THAT WE WERE
ASKED TO MEET SEE MET IN ORDER
TO GRANT VARIANCE.
SO I WILL BE SUPPORTING THIS.
I THINK IT'S A MINOR CHANGE
WHICH WON'T HAVE ANY NEGATIVE
IMPACTS ON THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
GRACE.
YEAH, I WOULD LIKE TO SECOND
WHAT THEY'VE SAID THAT I FEEL
THAT THE PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY
IS DEFINITELY THAT BY THE FACT
THAT THIS LAW IS SO MUCH
SMALLER THAN OTHER LOTS LOCATED
IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD AND IN
TERMS OF THE NONCONFORMITY, I
THINK THAT IT IT MAKES SENSE TO
ENCLOSE THAT AS IT IS BASED ON
THE THE EXISTING STRUCTURE.
SO ANY FURTHER.
YEAH.
JULIA JOHN, CAN I ASK BECAUSE I
DON'T REALLY KNOW WHAT THE
DEFINITION OF A DUCK IS BESIDES
THAT IT'S NOT A PATIO BUT IF WE
GIVE THE VARIANCE FOR A DUCK IT
CAN'T LIKE AT SOME POINT GET
COVERED OR CAN IT?
>> YES, THAT CAN HAVE A
COVER OVER IT.
YEAH THAT WOULD REQUIRE A
BUILDING PERMIT BUT IT'S THE
SAME FOOTPRINT AS THE DUCK IF
IT WERE GOING TO HAVE THE SAME
FOOTPRINT.
>> YES.
OK IT WOULD REQUIRE A PERMIT
BUT NOT A VARIANCE BECAUSE
WE'VE ALREADY GIVING IT TO HER
RIGHT.
OK
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION WE
READY FOR A MOTION.
>> SURE I'LL I'VE BEEN GIVEN
SOME MOTION SHEETS BY OUR VERY
GOOD STAFF HERE AND I'LL START
WITH A MOTION ON THE ALTERATION
ASBA TWENTY THREE 00 ZERO SIX
SIX NINETEEN FELT STREET
ALTERATION TO A NON CONFORMING
STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THREE TO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
ALLOW THE CLOSURE OF THE FIRST
AND SECOND FLOOR EXTERIOR DECKS
AND CONVERSION TO HABITABLE
SPACE.
THE EXISTING DECKS DO NOT
COMPLY WITH THE REAR YARD BACK
REQUIREMENT.
THE NEWLY ENCLOSED LIVING SPACE
WILL NOT ENCROACH FURTHER INTO
THE REAR YARD SET BACK THE
ENCLOSURE IS TO BE BUILT PER
THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU DAVE.
I HAVE A MOTION DRIVE SUPPORT.
THANK YOU TED.
MIKE YES DAVE.
DAVE YES.
CHRISTINA YES JULIA.
YES.
TODD YES.
GRACE YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES DARMA YES.
THE REQUEST TO ALTER
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE IS
GRANTED NOW I NEED A MOTION FOR
THE VARIANCE.
>> GOT THAT MOTION IN FRONT
OF ME AS WELL.
THANK YOU DAVE ZEBA TWENTY
THREE DECIR ZERO ZERO SIX B SIX
NINETEEN FELT STREET IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A SEVENTEEN POINT FOUR
PERCENT OR ONE HUNDRED SEVENTY
THREE SQUARE FOOT VARIANCE FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
POINT SIX SUBSECTION D TO ALLOW
A NEW DECK TO EXCEED THE
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE THIRTY FIVE
PERCENT REAR SETBACK COVERAGE.
THE DECK IS TO BE BUILT
ACCORDING TO THE SUBMITTED
PLANS MOTION TO SUPPORT.
THANK YOU TEN CHRISTINA YES
JULIA YES TED NO GRACE YES
ALBERT YES.
YES MIKE.
YES DAVE DAVE ALREADY YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED MOVING
ON TO PETITION ZIBA TWENTY
THREE DASH ZERO ZERO ONE TWO
SEVEN TWENTY ONE BROOKE STREET
STEVE AND PATIENT BENZOIN
PROPERTY OWNERS ARE REQUESTING
A SEVEN FOOT SIX VARIANCE FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT TWENTY ONE
POINT FOUR SUBSECTION A THREE
LOT ACCESSIBILITY TO REDUCE THE
REQUIRED 30 FOOT UNOBSTRUCTED
ACCESS AND UTILITY EASEMENT FOR
A PROPOSED LAND DIVISION.
THE VARIANCE REDUCE THE
EASEMENT TO TWENTY FEET TWENTY
TWO FEET SIX INCHES TO ACCESS
THE NEWLY PROPOSED SINGLE
FAMILY LOT AT THE REAR OF THE
PROPERTY THE PROPERTY IS OWNED
R ONE SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE WEST SIDE OF BROOK
STREET NORTH OF THE ANN ARBOR
OPEN SCHOOL AND THE MAC INDOOR
POOL IN THE WATER HILL
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE RESIDENCE WAS BUILT IN
NINETEEN EIGHTY ONE AND IS
APPROXIMATELY TWO THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED AND FORTY SEVEN SQUARE
FEET IN SIZE.
THE STRUCTURE IS A
NONCONFORMING DUPLEX DUPLEX
UNTIL IT WAS PURCHASED BY THE
CURRENT OWNERS IN TWENTY TWENTY
TWO AND IS NOW BEING USED AS A
SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
THE OWNERS ARE SEEKING A SEVEN
FOOT SIX INCH VARIANCE FROM THE
REQUIRED EASEMENT TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH THE LAND DIVISION
THAT IS BEING PROPOSED FOR THE
REAR HALF OF THE SUBJECT.
PASSELL THE OWNERS ARE
PROPOSING THE EASEMENT TO BE
LOCATED ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE PROPERTY BASED ON THE
SURVEY RESULTS, THE EXISTING
RESIDENCE IS TWENTY TWO SIX
INCHES FROM THE SOUTH SOUTH ONE
IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITORS THE FIRST SLIDE
IS THE
ZONING MAP AND YOU SEE
THE SUBJECT PARCEL HIGHLIGHTED
IN YELLOW IN THE CENTER YOUR
SCREEN ON THE WEST SIDE BOOKS
AND THERE'S MORE TO THE SOUTH
AND THEN THIS THE SCHOOL IN THE
POOL JUST SOUTH OF AN ADJACENT.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AERIAL
MAP SHOWING THE SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTO
AND IT'S ON THE SOUTH SIDE THE
REQUIRED OF A 30 UNOBSTRUCTED
EASEMENT AND THE STRUCTURE IS
TWENTY TWO FEET SIX INCHES FROM
THAT S FLAT LINE.
SO THAT'S THE SEVEN FOOT SIX
INCH VARIANCE REQUEST.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND THE NEXT SLIDES
ARE THE PHOTOS I TOOK AT MY
INSPECTION.
YOU SEE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY,
THE FRONT FACADE AND THIS IS
LOOKING DOWN THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE FLAT OR THE EXISTING
RESIDENCE IS SHOWING THE
RELATIONSHIP TO THE FENCE LINE.
YOU SEE THE SURVEY STATE AND
THIS IS THE WHERE THE REQUEST
IS BEING OF THE VARIANCE IS
BEING REQUESTED.
YOU SEE THAT IN THE BACKGROUND
THE DETACHED GARAGE AS WELL
LOOKING SOUTH AT THE ADJACENT
PROPERTY.
THIS IS THE BACK OF THE
PROPERTY YOU SEE THE EXISTING
THREE CAR DETACHED GARAGE
LOOKING AT THE REAR FACADE
OF THE EXISTING HOME AND
LOOKING THIS IS ON THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE GARAGE LOOKING AT
THE REAR OF THE PROPERTY THAT
CONCLUDES MY PRESENTATION AND
I'LL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU HAD AT THIS TIME JOHN
QUESTIONS DAVE I DIDN'T SEE IT
TOTALLY IN THE PHOTOS THAT YOU
JUST SHOWED BUT IT LOOKS TO ME
IS THERE A LOT OF VISION THAT A
LOT TO THE NORTH OR THE PARCEL
TO THE NORTH?
IT LOOKS LIKE THERE'S TWO
PARCELS THERE ON THE ON THE
LAND DIVISION.
>> THAT'S THE THAT'S THE
PROPERTY TO THE NORTH.
NOT THAT'S NOT THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY.
I KNOW THE PROPERTY IN NORTH
ALREADY HAS AN EXISTING LOT
SPLIT CORRECT.
CORRECT.
AND ARE THERE TWO STRUCTURES ON
THAT ONE ON THE FRONT AND ONE
ON THE CORRECT AND BOTH
OF THESE LOTS IT LOOK LIKE
THEY'RE SIGNIFICANTLY WIDER
THAN THE TWO LOTS FURTHER TO
THE NORTH IS THAT CORRECT?
>> I'M JUST LOOKING AT THIS
THAT THIS THEY'RE ALL I THINK
THEY'RE ALMOST IDENTICAL.
>> OK, SO IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S
SOMETIMES THAT WAS SPLIT AS
WELL ONLY VERTICALLY INSTEAD
HORIZONTALLY.
OK, THAT ANSWERS MY QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
OH ONE OTHER QUESTION WHAT'S
THE PURPOSE OF THE EASEMENT FOR
ACCESS AND UTILITIES AND WHAT
KIND OF UTILITIES, WATER, SEWER
AND ANY OTHER QUESTIONS I WANT
TO COURT?
>> I HAVE TWO QUESTIONS.
THE FIRST ONE PIGGYBACKING ON
DAVIS QUESTION WHY IS THE
REQUIRED 30 FEET IN SOME OF THE
READING?
THERE IS SOME NOTE PERHAPS
ABOUT FIRE TRUCKS GETTING NEAR
WHERE IS THIRTY FEET REALLY
NECESSARY OR WOULD TEN FEET DO
YOU STARTING TO DELVE INTO THE
WORLD OF ENGINEERING AND THIS
IS AGAIN THIS IS AN ENGINEERING
REQUIREMENT THAT'S IN THE
ZONING ORDINANCE.
SO I DON'T KNOW THE EXACT
SPECIFIC REASON BUT I'LL TAKE A
GUESS AS ONE IS YES FOR
EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS IF THE
HOUSE IN THE IN THE REAR NEEDS
SERVICE OF SOME SORT TWO WAY
TRAFFIC POSSIBLY DRIVEWAY ONE
CAR GOING IN AND OUT.
UH, YOU KNOW, THINGS LIKE THAT
THAT BRINGS UP THE QUESTION
THEN IS TWENTY TWO FEET SIX
WHICH IS GOING TO BE A PROBLEM
FOR AN EMERGENCY THOUGH AS FAR
AS YOU KNOW.
NO NO NOT AS I HAVE NOT BEEN
INFORMED OF OF ANYTHING OF THAT
NATURE.
>> NOW WE GET IN THE OTHER ONE
IS MAYBE JUST BECAUSE I DIDN'T
READ IT CLOSELY ENOUGH THE WHEN
THE PROPERTY IS DIVIDED WILL
EITHER THE LIGHTS VIOLATE ANY
SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FROM THE
LOT LINES IN ADDITION TO THE
EASEMENT.
>> SO ONE OF THE CONDITIONS
OF MY INDIVIDUAL THAT THAT
EXISTING THREE CAR GARAGE WILL
HAVE TO BE DEMOLISHED BECAUSE
IT WOULD NOT MEET FIRST OF ALL
YOU CAN'T HAVE AN ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE ON A VACANT LOT AND
THAT ALSO WOULD NOT MEET THE
FRONT SETBACK FOR THAT NEWLY
CREATED BLOCK.
SO WHAT I HEAR YOU IMPLYING IS
THAT IF THE LOT DIVISION GOES
AHEAD THERE WON'T BE ANY
SETBACK VIOLATIONS.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
ANY NEW STRUCTURE WILL HAVE TO
COMPLY WITH THE RNC DISTRICT
THAT PARKS AND BUILD A
STRUCTURE WITHIN THAT ENVELOPE.
>> OK, GOOD.
THANK YOU.
THAT'S HELPFUL.
DAVE, ONE MORE QUESTION SO I
COULD SEE A PURPOSE FOR A LOT
DIVISION TO HAVE A NEW
HABITABLE RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE
ON THE SECOND LOT DOES OUR
CURRENT ACCESSIBILITY ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNIT ORDINANCE IS
ALLOW THAT TO HAPPEN?
IF THIS WERE ONE PARCEL COULD
IT TEAR DOWN THE GARAGE AND PUT
A SEPARATE BUILDING BACK THERE
WITHOUT THE LAND DIVISION?
>> WITHOUT THE END OF IT, YES.
AND THEY WOULD THEY NEED AN
EASEMENT FOR THAT?
>> NO, THEY'D HAVE TO PROVIDE
OR THEY'D HAVE TO PROVIDE SOME
TYPE OF ACCESS THOUGH FOR THAT
PROPERTY PROBABLY IF THOSE
PEOPLE WERE TO HAVE A CAR
DRIVEWAY OR SOMETHING BUT THEY
WOULDN'T KNOW AND THEN THE ADA
WOULD THE ADA USE UTILITIES TO
CONNECT INTO THE EXISTING
RESIDENTS?
>> GOTCHA.
THANK YOU.
ANY OF OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN
?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONER IS HERE,
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD.
YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
>> SURE.
MY NAME IS STEVE OR FIRST
OF ALL I'D LIKE TO THANK YOU
FOR THIS OPPORTUNITY TO ADDRESS
YOU.
>> YEAH, JOHN HAS DESCRIBED THE
PROJECT VERY WELL.
THE THE ULTIMATE GOAL HERE IS
TO BE ABLE TO BUILD ANOTHER
STRUCTURE ON THE BACK HALF THE
WEST END OF THE LOT AND THE
IDEA IS THAT WE WOULD BUILD A
STRUCTURE BACK THERE WHICH
WOULD BE MORE CONGENIAL FOR
AGING IN PLACE AS THEY SAY
WITHOUT STAIRS AND WITH A
NUMBER OF AMENITIES BECAUSE OUR
GOAL OUR LONG TERM GOAL IS TO
STAY HERE IN ANN ARBOR AND AND
TO AGE IN PLACE IN THAT
RESIDENCE.
>> I GUESS I'LL BE GLAD TO
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS YOU MIGHT
HAVE I YEAH JOHN DID POINT OUT
OR SOMEONE POINTED OUT AND I
THINK IT'S WORTH REITERATING
THAT THE PROPERTIES IMMEDIATELY
TO THE NORTH OF OURS WERE
FORMED FROM A LOT WHICH WAS
MORE OR LESS IDENTICAL TO OURS
BOTH IN TERMS OF ITS EAST-WEST
DIMENSIONS AND ALSO ITS
NORTH-SOUTH DIMENSIONS AND THE
DEVELOPER DIVIDED THE PROPERTY
AND STRUCTURE WAS BUILT.
A NEW STRUCTURE WAS BUILT ON
THE BACK PART THE WEST PART
OF THE PROPERTY AND SO REALLY
WE'RE PROPOSING TO DO IS
ESSENTIALLY WHAT HAS ALREADY
BEEN DONE ON OUR NEIGHBOR
IMMEDIATELY TO THE NORTH.
THE ONLY OTHER THING I THINK I
SHOULD MENTION IS THAT ONE
MIGHT THINK THAT WE COULD HAVE
AN EASEMENT THAT WOULD SERVE
THE SAME FUNCTION TO THE NORTH
OF OUR PROPERTY.
BUT IN FACT THAT WOULD NOT BE
POSSIBLE BECAUSE THE HOUSE IS
REALLY VERY CLOSE TO THAT NORTH
PROPERTY LINE AND THERE'S NO
WAY IN THE WORLD THAT AN
EASEMENT OF THIRTY FEET COULD
BE COULD BE FOUND THERE UNLESS
YOU COULD PHYSICALLY PICK THE
HOUSE UP AND MOVE IT SO I GUESS
THAT'S IT.
I'D BE GLAD TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS YOU MIGHT HAVE.
>> THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR THE PETITIONER.
>> YES, CHRIS.
SO IS THERE A REASON WHY YOU'RE
LOOKING TO SPLIT THE LOT AND
BUILD A NEW HOME IN THE REAR
VERSUS BUILDING IN 82?
>> YEAH, I THINK THE REASON IS
THAT BUILDING A HOME IN THE
REAR GIVES US MORE OPTIONS THAN
AN EDU AS I UNDERSTAND IT.
AND PERHAPS I'M I'M I'M NOT
REALLY UP ON THIS BUT I THINK
THAT IN 82 IS LIMITED TO 800
SQUARE FEET AND WE WOULD LIKE
TO HAVE A SLIGHTLY BIGGER SPACE
NOT NOT A LOT BIGGER BUT A
LITTLE BIT BIGGER THAN THAT.
>> ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK, THANK YOU.
IF ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC
WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION, PLEASE COME FORWARD
NOW
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME FOR
THE RECORD.
>> YOU'LL HAVE THREE MINUTES.
HI MY NAME IS DAVID.
UH I OWN THE PROPERTY DIRECTLY
TO THE NORTH 720 NINE CROOKES
AND I DEVELOPED I SPLIT THOSE
TWO LOTS AND MY CONCERN ABOUT
THE SPLIT FOR SEVEN TWENTY ONE
IS THAT THERE'S NO INFORMATION
ON WHAT'S GOING TO BE BUILT
THERE.
WHEN I SPLIT THOSE WHEN I SPLIT
SEVEN TWENTY SEVEN AND SEVEN
TWENTY NINE I SUBMITTED
BUILDING PLANS AND
MORE
IMPORTANTLY TALKED EXTENSIVELY
WITH THE FIRE DEPARTMENT THE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT ABOUT
HOW TO GET BOTH UTILITIES AND
IT'S IT'S ACTUALLY WATER,
SEWER, ELECTRIC AND GAS BACK
THERE AND I THOUGHT I THOUGHT
WHEN I DID IT THAT TWENTY FEET
WOULD BE PLENTY BY THE TIME ALL
THE UTILITIES CAME THROUGH THEY
TOOK UP ALMOST ALL THAT THIRTY
FEET WITH THE DRIVEWAY THAT'S
WIDER THAN IT NEEDS TO BE WIDER
THAN TEN FEET.
SO IT'S GOT REALLY GOOD ACCESS
TO THE BACK LOT.
SO SAFETY IS ONE OF MY CONCERNS
BUT NOT KNOWING WHAT'S GOING TO
BE BUILT THERE, THERE'S
DRAINAGE ISSUES THE SIZE OF THE
UNIT.
I KIND OF LIKE THE IDEA OF A
SMALLER UNIT THAN LARGER.
THE HOUSE THAT'S BUILT IN THE
BACK LOT TAKES UP MOST OF THE
WIDTH OF THE LOT.
IF SOMEBODY BUILT ANOTHER HOUSE
THAT TOOK UP THE ENTIRE WITH IT
A LOT IT WOULD NEGATIVELY
AFFECT THE HOUSE IN THE BACK
WHICH ISN'T MINE BUT THAT
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT I'M
CONCERNED ABOUT SEVEN TWENTY
ONE WAS A PROBLEM WITH UH WITH
BEFORE THIS OWNER WITH ILLEGAL
RENTALS AND AND THERE WAS THAT
OWNER HAD PROBLEMS BUT THESE
GUYS AREN'T RENTING IT WHICH IS
FINE BUT I'M WORRIED ABOUT THE
PROPERTY NEGATIVELY AFFECTING
MY PROPERTY.
I THINK IT'S REASONABLE TO ASK
FOR IT BUT WITHOUT ANY
INFORMATION ABOUT WHAT'S REALLY
GOING TO BE THERE.
IT'S KIND OF LIKE A BLANK CHECK
AND THAT I WOULD LIKE TO KNOW
MORE ABOUT WHAT'S THERE.
I DON'T THINK I HAVE I MEAN I
SENT YOU A LETTER THAT HAS ALL
THE DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE
CODE THAT IT DOESN'T MEAN YOU
KNOW, THAT'S ALL JUST
CODE STUFF.
BUT REALLY I CAN'T SUPPORT IT
BECAUSE I JUST I DON'T KNOW
WHAT'S GOING TO BE THERE DENHA
QUESTIONS THANK YOU FOR ME.
NO, I THINK RULESET THANK YOU.
MIKE HAS NOTED WE DID RECEIVE
YOUR LETTER AS WELL SO UM
ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES IS
BECAUSE THIS PETITION IF
THERE'S ANYONE ACCESSING THE
MEETING REMOTELY OR WHO'S
CALLED IN PLEASE PRESS STAR
NINE OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FUNCTION RAISE YOUR HAND.
I'M BEING TOLD THERE'S NO ALL
RIGHT.
THANK YOU, JOHN WITH THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED AND WE ARE IN
DISCUSSION.
>> OH, TODD, YOU'RE GREEN
LADIES.
UM, SO FOLLOWING UP TO MR
HAGUE, I WOULD ASK JOHN IF WE
GRANT THE VARIANCE OBVIOUSLY
THEY NEED TO MEET ALL THE
SETBACK REQUIREMENTS BUT IT
GOES BACK TO MY ORIGINAL
QUESTION WHAT MR. HAGUE WAS
SAYING WHEN HE GOT DONE AND ALL
THE UTILITIES HAD TO GET IN
THERE, THEY HAD TO USE THE
ENTIRE THIRTY FEET.
>> SO WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF WE
GIVE THEM THE VARIANCE AND YOU
KNOW THE GAS PEOPLE ARE HAPPY
IN THE SUMMER.
PEOPLE ARE HAPPY BUT SUDDENLY
THE WATER PEOPLE COME IN AND
SAY WE DON'T HAVE ANY ROOM SO
WHAT HAPPENS?
>> I MEAN THAT THAT'S AN ISSUE
OR A WATER AND SEWER THE WATER
THROUGH OUR PUBLIC UTILITIES
PROVIDED BY THE CITY OF AN HOUR
OR SO THAT'S GOING TO BE
REQUIRED AND THOSE THOSE WILL
BE INSTALLED.
I CAN'T SPEAK PRIVATE UTILITIES
WHICH IS OUR ELECTRIC AND GAS
AND WE DON'T EVEN KNOW IF
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE NATURAL
GAS.
>> WE'LL THEY'LL HAVE ONE OR
THE OTHER OTHERWISE THEY'RE
GOING TO BE BURNING A LOT
OF WOOD.
BUT YOU KNOW THOSE DISPOSED TO
PRIVATE UTILITIES ARE NOT
REQUIRED SO THE TWO UTILITIES
ARE REQUIRED OUR WATER AND
SEWER.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
YEAH.
YOU KNOW, IT'S I'M JUST MAYBE
HUNG UP TOO MUCH ON WHETHER
SHRINKING THE EASEMENT IS A
GOOD IDEA OR NOT.
MAYBE I'D LIKE TO HEAR SOME
OF MY FELLOW BOARD MEMBERS IF
MY CONCERN IS MISPLACED.
WHO WHAT DO YOU FOLKS THINK?
YEAH, I GUESS I'M CURIOUS WITH
RESPECT TO MR. HAGUE'S LETTER
HE SAYS THAT HE WAS ABLE TO
BUILD THE TWO STRUCTURES THAT
ARE ON THE PROPERTY IMMEDIATELY
NORTH WITHOUT ANY VARIANCE
WHATSOEVER.
I WAS WONDERING IF YOU COULD
SPEAK TO THAT.
>> IS THAT TRUE OR WELL THAT
THAT LAND DIVISION WAS YOU KNOW
,BY RIGHT.
SO BECAUSE OF IT OH OK.
AND THIS ONE COULD BE DONE BY
WRIGHT ALSO IF IT DIDN'T NEED
THE VARIANCE FOR THE EXCESSES.
THAT'S CORRECT.
GOT IT.
THANK YOU
DAVE.
I I'M KIND OF I'M KIND TORN
WITH THIS BECAUSE I'D REALLY
LIKE TO FACILITATE INCREASE IN
DENSITY IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
BUT WHAT I'M LOOKING AT IS WE
DON'T REALLY HAVE THE LEEWAY TO
I DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHAT THE
PRACTICAL HARDSHIP IS.
I DON'T KNOW HOW IT MEETS ANY
OF OUR STANDARDS FOR GRANTED
THE VARIANCE ADDITIONALLY I
THINK THE HOMEOWNER POTENTIALLY
I DON'T KNOW HOW CONDUCIVE OR
HOW EASY IT WOULD BE AND YOU'D
PROBABLY HAVE TO GET A LAWYER
INVOLVED TO GET A UTILITY
EASEMENT FROM THIS PUBLIC
SCHOOL SYSTEM BECAUSE THAT
PROPERTY IS TOTALLY OPEN AND IF
MAYBE ALL YOU NEED IS FIVE FEET
OR SOMETHING TO CREATE WITH
YOUR OWN PROPERTY.
SO I SEE SOME OTHER OPTIONS AND
I'M NOT SURE THAT THOSE OPTIONS
HAVE BEEN EXHAUSTED TOWARDS
MEETING WHAT I WOULD HOPE WOULD
BE A GOAL FOR US.
THE STATED GOAL OF MEMBERS ON
THIS BOARD TO FACILITATE
INCREASED DENSITY IN THE
COMMUNITY.
BUT GIVEN ALL OF THAT, I THINK
I'M GOING TO HAVE TO VOTE NO ON
THIS ONE UNLESS SOMEBODY COULD
CONVINCE ME OTHERWISE.
DID SOMEONE DOWN HERE HAVE A
COMMENT?
I KNOW CHRISTINA WAS YEAH, I
WAS STILL FORMULA.
THERE IS A CONCERN RAISED ABOUT
NOT HAVING ANY PLANS TO
EVALUATE RIGHT IN THIS PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT.
IS THAT NOT REQUIRED?
THAT'S CORRECT.
ACTUALLY JUST THE SURVEY THAT
WAS PROVIDED SO THERE'S NO
REQUIREMENT TO PROVIDE PLANS
FOR FUTURE PLANS TO SUBMIT A
LAND DIVISION TO THE CITY AND
EVENTUALLY ON TO THE STATE.
SO THAT PART OF THE REQUIREMENT
JUST HAS TO MEET THE LOT WITH
AND A LOT AREA WHICH THIS DOES
IT JUST DOESN'T MEET THE
ENGINEERING REQUIREMENT OF THE
30 FOOT ACQUISITION AND HAS THE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT REVIEWED
THIS POSSIBILITY OF THAT?
>> WELL, THEY THEY WOULD THEY
WOULD IF THEY'RE IF IT'S IF
IT'S APPROVED.
YEAH BUT BUT THEY DO NOT
EVALUATE IT UNTIL KNOW THEY'RE
NOW THERE HASN'T BEEN AN
APPLICATION SUBMITTED TO THE OK
THANK YOU.
>> YEAH.
REPEATING MYSELF AND MAYBE A
LITTLE MORE PLAINLY I GUESS I
LOOK UPON THIS THE BURDEN
OF THE APPLICANT HAS TO ALLAY
OUR CONCERNS AND I DON'T THINK
THEY'VE REALLY ADDRESSED THE
PROBLEMS THAT MIGHT OCCUR BY
SHRINKING THE WIDTH THESE I'M
JUST NOT CONVINCED THAT THAT
WOULD BE PROBLEM FREE AND MAYBE
BECAUSE IT'S AT A VERY EARLY
STAGE AND THAT REALLY ISN'T A
PROBLEM.
BUT I THINK PERHAPS THE
APPLICATION IS A LITTLE
PREMATURE IN THAT REGARD.
SO I'M LOOKING AS THEY HAVE TO
CONVINCE US THAT IT'S NOT GOING
TO BE A PROBLEM.
YOU DON'T WANT TO BE IN THE
SPOT WHERE YOU GOT THE HOUSE
GOING UP, YOU GOT THE STRUCTURE
THERE AND THEN NOW THERE'S A
PROBLEM WITH THE WITH THESE BUT
I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU DO ABOUT
THAT.
SO OBVIOUSLY WOULD BE A HECK
OF A BUILDING CONSORTIUM BUT
MAYBE IT'S IN THE INTEREST
OF THE APPLICANT TO IRON OUT
FIRST AND MAKE SURE THAT THEY
CAN LIVE WITH THE FOOTY'S.
BUT RIGHT NOW I'M NOT FEELING
VERY CONVINCED ABOUT THIS.
I'VE GOT THIS MOTION IN FRONT
OF ME.
I'D MAKE IT IF AT THE CHAIR'S
DISCRETION.
>> HOLD ON ONE SECOND, JULIA.
SO I.
I HEAR WHAT TODD'S SAYING.
IT'S TOTALLY SOUNDS RATIONAL
BUT AT THE SAME TIME IT DOESN'T
FEEL LIKE THAT'S OUR PLACE HE'S
COMING TO ASK FOR THIS EASEMENT
IF HE THEN GO GETS TRIES TO GET
A PERMIT TO BUILD A HOUSE THAT
HE WANTS AND THE AND THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT SAYS NO YOU
CAN'T IT WON'T WORK BECAUSE WE
RAN INTO ALL THESE PROBLEMS,
YOU KNOW THEN HE OWNS TWO LOTS
AND HE'S BACK IN THE HOUSE YEAR
LIKE I KIND OF FEEL LIKE THAT'S
THE DECISION HE MADE TO PROCEED
THAT WAY AND I DON'T FEEL A
NEED TO SECOND GUESS THAT.
>> I DO FEEL HE PRESENTED THE
SAME HARDSHIP AS THE PREVIOUS
PEOPLE THEY WANT TO AGE IN
PLACE.
>> THEY'RE IN A TWO STOREY
HOUSE THAT WON'T WORK SO
THEY'RE LOOKING TO BUILD A
SINGLE STOREY I MEAN I HEARD
THE EXACT SAME HARDSHIP AS THE
PREVIOUS ONES, PERHAPS EVEN
MORE SO BECAUSE IT WASN'T FOR
US TO ENJOY AN OUTSIDE SPACE.
>> IT WAS TO ACTUALLY LIVE IN
THE HOME.
SO I THINK BASED ON THAT I'M
GOING TO HAVE TO VOTE YES.
>> YOU KNOW, THANK YOU.
YOU'VE CHANGED MY MIND IN THIS
.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION OR DID
YOU HAVE DISCUSSION?
ARE YOU STILL READY FOR THIS IS
DISCUSSION OK, GO FOR IT.
>> I DO WANT TO POINT OUT THAT
THEY CAN BUILD AN ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNIT ALBEIT NOT THE
SIZE THAT THEY WANT SO THERE
CAN BE A VERY SMALL RESIDENTIAL
UNIT PUT THERE WITH PLUMBING
AND EVERYTHING THAT IT WOULD
JUST BE HOOKED INTO THE
PLUMBING OF THE STRUCTURE ON
THE FIRST AT THE FRONT OF THE
LOT.
SO IT'S I DON'T SEE US IF WE
DENY THIS I DON'T SEE US AS
PREVENTING FROM PUTTING A
SECOND DWELLING
THERE.
WHAT WE IT WOULD JUST BE
RESTRICTED TO MEETING OUR
STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
>> I WILL SAY BRIEFLY I DO HAVE
SOME HESITATION ABOUT THE
WIDTH.
>> I FEEL LIKE THIRTY FEET IS
THE STANDARD FOR A REASON AND
I'M NOT SURE YEAH YOU COULD
PROBABLY GET ADEQUATE ACCESS IN
THE TWENTY TWO ISH FEET THAT
ARE THERE BUT I'M NOT SURE
ABOUT UTILITIES AND THE
SEPARATION THAT'S NEEDED
BETWEEN WATER AND SEWER AND
ELECTRIC AND GAS.
IF EVERYTHING WAS TO RUN
THROUGH THEIR I JUST DON'T KNOW
THAT I'M COMFORTABLE ALLOWING
IT WITH A A LESS EASEMENT WIDTH
IF THAT'S GOING TO CAUSE A
PROBLEM LATER.
>> I'M NOT I GUESS SATISFIED
THAT IT WON'T SO I'M INCLINED
TO VOTE NO ON THIS ONE JUST
BECAUSE I STILL HAVE SOME
QUESTIONS THAT I DON'T THINK WE
ARE GOING TO HAVE ANSWERS TO
TODAY.
THERE'S ANY OTHER DISCUSSION.
>> IF NOT, I THINK WE'RE READY
FOR EMOTION.
OK, ZIBA TWENTY THREE 00 ONE
ZERO SEVEN TWENTY ONE BROOK
STREET IN ACCORDANCE WITH
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL, THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
SEVEN FOOT SIX INCH VARIANCE
FROM SECTION FIVE POINT TWENTY
ONE POINT FOUR SUBSECTION A
SOME SUBSECTION THREE A LOT
ACCESSIBILITY TO REDUCE THE
REQUIRED 30 FOOT ACCESS AND
UTILITY EASEMENT TO TWENTY TWO
FEET SIX INCHES.
THE VARIANCE REDUCES THE
REQUIRED EASEMENT WITH TO ALLOW
ACCESS TO A REAR LIGHT BEING
CREATED BY A LAND DIVISION.
THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE
SUPPORT SUPPORT.
THANK YOU CHRISTINA JULIA.
YES TODD.
>> YES GRACE YES I VOTE NO
DARMA YES.
MIKE YES.
DAVE DIVERSITY NO CHRISTINA NO
.
THE THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
>> MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO
ZERO SEVEN EIGHT NINETY
EISENHOWER AS I NOTED THIS ONE
WAS WITHDRAWN SO IF THERE IS
ANYONE WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION NOW'S THE TIME.
IF THERE'S NO ONE HERE THEN WE
WILL MOVE ON TO THE NEXT
PETITION
.
I'VE SEEN THAT THERE'S NO ONE
ON AN ONLINE STREET.
>> ALL RIGHT.
ANY PUBLIC HEARINGS CLOSED AND
WE ARE MOVING TO PETITION CBA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO ONE
ONE EIGHTEEN THIRTY FIVE
CAMBRIDGE WROTE THANK YOU
CANDICE DAVID LEWIS
REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY OWNER
IS REQUESTING A NINE FOOT
VARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DOLLARS TO TWO FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT DIMENSION'S
TO CONSTRUCT A NEW ATTACHED
GARAGE TO THE EXISTING
NONCONFORMING RESIDENCE.
THE PROPOSED GARAGE WILL BE
APPROXIMATELY FIVE HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY EIGHT SQUARE FEET IN
SIZE WITH THE ATTACHMENT
INCLUDING AN EATING AREA AND
MUDROOM.
THE PROPERTY IS OWNED OUR TWO
WAY TO FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
REQUIRES A 20 FOOT REAR YARD
SET BACK THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
IS LOCATED NEAR THE
INTERSECTION OF CAMBRIDGE ROAD
AND BAY STREET EAST TO
WASHINGTON AVENUE.
THE RESIDENCE WAS BUILT IN 1910
AND IS APPROXIMATELY THREE
THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED FIFTY SIX
SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
THE RESIDENCE HAS AN EXISTING
ONE CAR DETACHED GARAGE IN THE
YARD THAT IS APPROXIMATELY TWO
FEET TWO INCHES FROM THE REAL
OUTLINE THE OWNERS WILL
DEMOLISH THE EXISTING
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE AND
CONSTRUCT THE NEW ATTACH TO CAR
GARAGE.
THE HOME IS NOT CONFORMING ALSO
AS IT IS SIX FEET FOUR INCHES
FROM IT REQUIRED VERY OUTSET
THAT IF YOU TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITORS, THE FIRST
SLIDE IS THE ZONING MAP YOU SEE
THE HIGHLIGHTED PARCEL AT THE
CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN AND IT'S
JUST EAST OF WASHTENAW AVENUE.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AERIAL
MAP SHOWING SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
SHOWS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL
PHOTO AND YOU SEE THE POSITION
OF THE HOUSE AND THE VERY BACK
OF THIS LOT AND THE DETACHED
GARAGE IS DIRECTLY BEHIND THAT
CAR.
IT'S A LITTLE DIFFICULT WITH
THE VEGETATION TO SEE THAT YOU
SEE IT NOW ON THE SURVEY THAT
WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION THE NEXT SLIDE
SHOWS AN EXISTING SITE PLAN AND
YOU SEE THE POSITION OF THE
EXISTING RESIDENTS AND THE
DETACHED GARAGE IN RELATIONSHIP
TO ONE ANOTHER AND THE NEXT
SLIDE IS JUST A LITTLE ZOOMED
IN AERIAL OF THAT SITE PLAN
EXISTING CONDITION AND THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOWS THE PROPOSED NEW
ATTACHED GARAGE AND YOU SEE THE
ATTACHMENT TO THE REAR OF THE
EXISTING RESIDENCE WITH THE
GARAGE AND THE SMALL EATING
AREA AND A MUDROOM OPENING TO
THE GARAGE AND IT'S 11 FEET TO
THAT REAR LINE THUS THE NINE
FOOT VARIANCE REQUEST THESE ARE
EXISTING ELEVATION AT THE TOP
AND THE PROPOSED ELEVATION AT
THE BOTTOM.
THE EXISTING EAST ELEVATION AT
THE TOP AND THE PROPOSED EAST
ELEVATION AT THE BOTTOM OF YOUR
SCREEN.
>> THE NORTH ELEVATION SHOWS
THE EXISTING AND THE BOTTOM
OF THE SCREEN THE PROPOSED
NORTH ELEVATION AND THE SHOWS A
GOOD ATTACHMENT PHOTO THERE.
THESE ARE THESE PICTURES I TOOK
INSPECTION OF THE PROPERTY YOU
SEE THE HOUSE IS IN ITS CURRENT
STATE.
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE EXISTING
DETACHED GARAGE AND THIS IS A
LITTLE BIT MORE OF THE REAR
OF THE PROPERTY AND THIS IS THE
REAR ELEVATION OF THE EXISTING
HOME AND THE EXISTING DETACHED
GARAGE, THE RELATIONSHIP TO
THAT RAT LINE AND YOU SEE THE
PROXIMITY TO A FENCE AND THESE
ARE PHOTOS THAT WERE SUBMITTED
BY THE APPLICANT.
>> IT'S A VIEW OF THE EXISTING
HOUSE AND GARAGE VIEW OF THE
BACK NORTHEAST CORNER OF THESE
EXISTING GARAGES BUILT INTO THE
HILLSIDE AND THE BACK FENCE IS
IN THE BACKGROUND.
>> IT'S THE PROPERTY LINE
THAT'S THE END OF MY
PRESENTATION.
>> I WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU HAVE AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
YOU MAY HAVE MENTIONED THIS AND
I JUST MISSED IT.
DO WE KNOW THE DISTANCE FROM
THE EXISTING GARAGE TO THE OH
YEAH.
TWO FEET TWO INCHES.
OK, SO THE PROPOSED GARAGE
WOULD BE FARTHER FROM THE REAR
THE REAR OF THAT LINE LESSENING
THE NONCONFORMING SITUATION.
OK, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
SOMEWHAT.
THE DETACHED GARAGE CAN BE
THREE FEET SO SURE.
YEAH BUT IT'S GOING TO BE
FARTHER AWAY FROM THAT LINE BY
PARDON ME THE THE PROPOSED
ATTACHED GARAGE IS GOING TO BE
11 FEET FROM THE FLAT LINE SO
THEY NEED IT THEY NEED 20 FEET
AS REQUIRED SO THEY'RE
REQUIRING REQUESTING A NINE
FOOT VARIANCE.
>> JOHN, CAN YOU GO THAT FLOOR
PLAN I'M SORRY I WAS
OH DAVE
SORRY SO IF THEY JUST WANTED A
LARGER GARAGE, COULD THEY TEAR
DOWN THE OLD ONE AND BUILD A
LARGER DETACHED GARAGE WITHOUT
COMING TO US?
>> THAT'S A POSSIBILITY OF WHAT
WOULD THEIR REAR SETBACK HAVE
TO BE IF THEY DID THAT THREE
FEET SO THEY COULD ESSENTIALLY
DO THIS GARAGE WITHOUT SERVICE
WAY BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND THE
GARAGE WITHOUT EVEN COMING?
>> THAT'S THE PLAN.
THAT'S CORRECT.
BUT I WILL LET THE APPLICANT,
YOU KNOW, COMMENT ON THAT AS
WELL.
OK, THANK YOU.
THAT'S KIND OF PART OF THE
APPLICANTS RESPONSIBILITY.
>> ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
JOHN?
SO NOW I HAVE ANNOYING SOMEWHAT
ABSTRACT QUESTIONS.
SO WHY WHY DOES AN ATTACHED
GARAGE NEED TO BE FURTHER AWAY
FROM A REAR LOP LINE?
I UNDERSTAND IN THE OLD TIMES,
YOU KNOW THE GARAGE IS LOOKED
UPON AS DANGEROUS.
YOU GOT THEM AS FAR AWAY FROM
THE HOUSE AS YOU COULD
OF COURSE.
BUT HERE WE ARE WHERE IF IT'S
DETACHED THREE FEET BUT
ATTACHED TWENTY FEET FROM THERE
MUST BE A REASON FOR THAT ONCE
THAT ONCE A DETACHED STRUCTURE
IS ATTACHED TO THE PRINCIPAL
STRUCTURE IT BECOMES PART
OF THE PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE AND
IS REQUIRED TO MEET THE SAME
SETBACKS AS THE HOUSE.
THE QUESTIONS FOR JOHN RIGHT.
THE PETITIONERS HERE PLEASE
COME FORWARD STATE YOUR NAME
FOR THE RECORD YOU'LL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES.
GOOD EVENING AGAIN, DAVID
LEWIS.
I'M THE ARCHITECT FOR THE
PROJECT.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
I THINK YOU
COVERED A LOT
OF THE POINTS.
THE ONE THING JOHN MENTIONED
BRIEFLY AND KIND OF THE ONE
OF THE MAIN PROBLEMS WE WE
ENCOUNTERED WITH THE DESIGN
OF THE SCRATCH IS THAT THE
EXISTING HOUSE IS EXTREMELY FAR
BACK IN THE LOT.
I MEAN IT'S A VERY DEEP LOT AND
AND I'VE SEEN THIS IN OTHER
HOMES IN AUBURN HILLS.
I DON'T KNOW WHY BUT A LOT
OF THESE HOUSES WERE BUILT LIKE
REALLY FAR TOWARDS THE BACK
OF THE LOT AND AS YOU CAN SEE
THE KITCHEN IT MAKES SENSE FOR
THE VA TO HAVE IT ATTACHED TO
THE BEDROOM THAT FLOWS INTO THE
KITCHEN AND THERE'S WINDOWS IN
THE KITCHEN AND AS YOU SAW THE
PHOTOS VERY NICE HOUSE AND YOU
KNOW, OBLITERATING THE MAIN
WINDOW THAT PROVIDES LIGHT TO
THE KITCHEN BY YOUR GARAGE WAS
JUST DIDN'T SEEM APPROPRIATE
RECONFIGURING THE DRIVEWAY WAS
ALSO ANOTHER ISSUE WITH WITH
CONFORMING TO THE SET BACK
LINES AS DAVE ALLUDED TO, WE
COULD BUILD THIS GARAGE WITHOUT
ANY ZEBB APPROVAL IF IT WAS
DETACHED AND I I JOHN MAY BE
ABLE TO ELABORATE ON THIS AND
THE WAY WE'VE DESIGNED IS NOT
DOES NOT NEED ANY YOU KNOW, IT
CONFORMS TO THE SET BACK.
SO I THINK WE CAN PROVIDE
MIRROR INCHES TO SEPARATE THE
GARAGE AND THE BEDROOM AND THIS
WOULD BE CONSIDERED COMPLETELY
LEGIT THEN AND THE HOMEOWNER
CAN JUST WALK ACROSS A LITTLE
GAP IN THE FLOOR AND THE ROOF
AND WE WOULD NOT HAVE TO APPEAR
IN FRONT OF THE ZIBA AT ALL FOR
THAT.
THE HOMEOWNERS HAVE LIVED IN
THIS HOUSE FOR A LONG TIME.
THEY REALLY LOVE IT.
THE WIFE IS HAS OSTEOPOROSIS
AND SHE HAS IN THE PAST FALLEN
ON ICE AND BROKEN BONE AND SO
IT'S DEFINITELY A STRONG DESIRE
FOR THEM TO HAVE ATTACHED
GARAGE THAT THEY CAN GET IN AND
OUT OF AND ALSO HAVING SPACE
TWO CARS RIGHT NOW THEIR
EXISTING GARAGE IS ONLY ONE CAR
.
>> I THINK THAT COVERS
EVERYTHING.
LIKE I SAID, THE BEDROOM ITSELF
IS WITHIN THE SET BACK LINE SO
IT'S JUST THE GARAGE AND AS
JOHN POINTED OUT, THE EXISTING
GARAGE IS YOU'RE JUST A LITTLE
OVER TWO FEET AWAY FROM
PROPERTY LINE.
SO THIS WOULD ACTUALLY BE AN
IMPROVEMENT AS FAR AS NOT
HAVING A GARAGE CLOSE TO THE
NEIGHBOR'S PROPERTY.
ANYTHING ELSE I WANT TO MENTION
IS THAT THIS PROPERTY HAS A
WHICH YOU SAW IN THE PHOTOS AND
SO THE THE EXPOSURE OF THE
NEIGHBOR WHO BY THE WAY, AS FAR
AS I UNDERSTAND SUPPORTS THIS
PROPOSAL.
BUT THE VIEW OF THE GARAGE FROM
THE PROPERTY IS MINIMIZED
BECAUSE THE GARAGE IS BURIED
SEVERAL FEET BELOW GRADE BY THE
TIME GETS TO THE BACK OF THE
GARAGE, THE HOMEOWNERS HERE IF
IF THERE'S ANY QUESTIONS FOR
HIM, ANY QUESTIONS FOR ME.
>> THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS DAVE.
I'M LOOKING AT THE LOTS THE TWO
ADJACENT LOTS ARE WITHOUT
DWELLING UNITS.
ARE THOSE PART OF THE SAME
OWNERSHIP?
DOES THIS PERSON OWN THOSE TWO
LOTS?
YES, EITHER SIDE YES.
THIS SITS IN IN BETWEEN.
SO REALLY IT'S GOT A VERY LARGE
FOOTPRINT WEST EAST IF YOU TAKE
ALL THOSE THREE LOTS IN GREAT.
ANY OF THE QUESTIONS FOR DAVID
.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC
WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION.
PLEASE COME FORWARD NOW THERE'S
ANYONE ACCESSING THE MEETING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
TO RAISE YOUR HAND OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FUNCTION ON THE
WEBLINK
.
I'M HEARING THERE'S NO ONE ON
LINE TO HAVE ANY COMMENTS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
WITH THAT SAID, THE PUBLIC
HEARINGS CLOSED AND WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION.
MIKE, I'M GOING TO SUPPORT
THIS.
IT'S MOVING THE GARAGE AWAY
FROM THE PROPERTY LINE.
THE POINT I MADE ABOUT THE
COUPLE OF INCHES OF SPACE WAS
IT WAS A STRONG ONE.
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, THE RISK IS
RIGHT.
WE GRANT THIS THIS DOESN'T HAVE
TO MEAN A GARAGE.
IT'S IT'S PART OF THE STRUCTURE
THE NEXT OWNER COULD TEAR THE
WHOLE THING DOWN AND BUILD THE
WHOLE HOUSE THAT FAR OUT.
SO THAT'S THE RISK WE'RE TAKING
RIGHT NOW THAT ALL THESE
PROPERTIES ONCE THEY HAVE THIS
VARIANCE THEY HAVE.
BUT I'M GOING TO LOOKED AT RISK
GIVING IT IS MOVING THE
STRUCTURE AWAY FROM THE
PROPERTY LINE BY YOU KNOW WHAT,
EIGHT FEET.
SO I WANT TO SUPPORT IT
AND THE
OTHER DISCUSSION, DAVE, I'M
REALLY TORN ON THIS, YOU KNOW,
BY THE LETTER OF OUR
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE VARIANCE
THEY COULD BASICALLY DO THIS
GARAGE IN PLACE THE WAY THEY
WANT TO DO IT, MAKE IT THE SIZE
THEY WANT IT, MOVE IT UP,
MODERNIZE IT.
YOU KNOW THAT ALL OF THAT
SPEAKS TO VOTING AGAINST IN
ORDER TO MAINTAIN CONSISTENCY
WITH OTHER PETITIONS BEFORE US
.
BY THE SAME TOKEN AS MY
COLLEAGUE MACDANIELS POINTS OUT
,IT'S MOVING IT FURTHER UP
AWAY FROM THE LOT LINE.
IT'S YOU KNOW, THEY COULD DO IT
AND JUST HAVE THE HOMEOWNER
TAKE TWO STEPS FROM ONE
ENTRANCE TO THE OTHER ENTRANCE
THAT WEIGHS FOUR.
HEY, WHY NOT DO IT?
I DON'T KNOW.
I'M I'M GOING TO HOLD WHETHER
I'LL VOTE FOR THIS YES OR NO
FOR THE MOMENT AND SEE IF
ANYBODY ELSE WEIGHS IN.
>> I AM I KNOW IN THE PAST I'VE
VOTED AGAINST THINGS BECAUSE
ONCE WE GRANT THE VARIANCE
THERE IT'S OUT OF OUR CONTROL
WHAT HAPPENS?
SO WE ARE GIVING THE CAPABILITY
OF BUILDING TO CLOSER THAT LAST
LINE SOMETHING THAT WILL LATER
BE CONVERTED TO INTERIOR
DWELLING USE USE.
SO I'M I'M TORN AND BY ALL
THOSE THINGS AND I'M NOT SURE
I'D APPRECIATE ANY INPUT FROM
OTHER MEMBERS OF THE BOARD.
YEAH.
THAT'S JULIA.
YOU KNOW, I DON'T THINK THAT IT
MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS THEY CAN
DO A DETACHED GARAGE.
THEY CAN IT'S NOT IT MIGHT BE A
LITTLE BIT OF PAIN IN THE NECK
BUT IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE A
HARDSHIP.
DO YOU EVEN HAVE WHAT THEY HAVE
NOW?
I'M NOT A BIG FAN
OF ENCOURAGING MORE GARAGE
.
YOU KNOW IT DOES I AGREE IT
DOES SEEM GOOFY.
YOU KNOW THAT A HOUSE IS SET
BACK ON THE PROPERTY IS NOT THE
WAY NORMALLY YOU DO STUFF IN
THE CITY BUT LIKE A LOT OF THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD DOESN'T HAVE
SIDEWALKS AND STUFF.
>> I MEAN IT IS A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT IN THAT NEIGHBORHOOD
.
SO IT DOES SEEM WEIRD TO PUT
THE GARAGE UP CLOSER TO THE
STREET BUT I HAVE SEEN THAT
IT'S NOT UNHEARD OF SO I'M NOT
QUITE SEEING WHERE IT FITS THE
CRITERIA WE'RE SUPPOSED TO MEET
AND THE OTHER DISCUSSION READY
FOR MOTION I COULD MAKE A
MOTION.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, DAVE ZIBA TWENTY
THREE DASH ZERO ZERO ONE ONE
EIGHTEEN THIRTY FIVE CAMBRIDGE
ROAD IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL OF THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A NINE
FOOT VARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE
POINT SEVENTEEN TO TWO FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT DIMENSIONS TO
CONSTRUCT NEW ATTACHED GARAGE
TO THE EXISTING NONCONFORMING
RESIDENCE.
THE ARE TO A DISTRICT REQUIRES
A 20 FOOT REAR YARD SETBACK AND
THE PROPOSED GARAGE WILL BE 11
FEET FROM THE FLAT LINE.
THE ATTACHED GARAGE IS TO BE
BUILT FOR THE SUBMITTED PLANS
MOTION TO SUPPORT.
THANK YOU MIKE
.
WHERE TO START KRISTINA?
YES, JULIA NO TODD NO GRACE NO
.
I ALSO WANT NO DRAMA NO MIKE.
YES DAVE.
DAVE ALREADY KNOW THE REQUEST
IS DENIED.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO
ZERO NINE FOUR ZERO EIGHT ZERO
GLACIER HILLS DRIVE JUMP.
I'M ONE OF THE STAFF MEMBERS IS
GOING TO INTRODUCE THIS CASE.
ALEXIS DELIO OH THANK YOU JOHN.
THAT WE CAN WE CAN HEAR YOU.
>> YES ALEXIS OH JOSH WOULD YOU
LIKE THAT YOU BEEN IN THE ROOM
FOR SO LONG.
>> I'LL GO THROUGH THIS I'LL GO
THROUGH THIS FIRST.
WE'LL GO THROUGH THE ORIGINAL
THE REGULAR SLIDE PRESENTATION
THE FIRST SLIDE IS THE
THE
ZONING MAP AND YOU CAN SEE THE
HIGHLIGHTED SUBJECT CASTLE IN
THE MIDDLE OF YOUR SCREEN.
THE NEXT SLIDE YOU SEE THE
AERIAL PHOTO AERIAL MAP SHOWING
THE SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
EXISTING CONDITIONS.
IT'S JUST WEST OF THE US.
TWENTY THREE AND IT'S ON THE
EAST SIDE OF WHAT IS THIS
GLACIER ROAD.
>> YES, AHA.
EXCUSE ME.
AND THEN THE NEXT SLIDE IS JUST
A LITTLE BIT MORE ZOOMED IN AND
YOU SEE THE SARBJIT PROPERTY
AND THE PROJECT AND FROM THERE
I'LL LET ALEXIS TAKE OVER BUT
THIS IS THE SURVEY THAT WAS
SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION
AS WELL.
>> I THINK YOU CAN LEAVE THERE
FOR A MOMENT AND THEN IN A
MINUTE OF NEXT SLIDE, THIS IS A
REQUEST FOR A VARIANCE FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT TWENTY FIVE
POINT TO APPLICABILITY OF THE
OUTDOOR LIGHTING SECTION.
IT IS ASSOCIATED WITH A SITE
PLAN FOR PLANNING MANAGER
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT FOUR
GARAGES ON THIS 32 ACRE SITE
THAT'S ZONED OUR FOR B IT IS
THE GLACIER HILLS, THE SENIOR
LIVING COMMUNITY.
THE VARIANCE SUPPLYING THE
CURRENT OUTDOOR LIGHTING
STANDARDS ONLY TO NEWLY
PROPOSED BUILDINGS AND LIGHTING
AND ALLOWING EXISTING LIGHTING
TO REMAIN AS NONCONFORMING PER
SECTION FIVE TWENTY FIVE TO ALL
LIGHTING ON THE SITE MUST
COMPLY WITH THE OUTDOOR
LIGHTING STANDARDS AND THERE
ARE NO PROVISIONS IN EITHER
OUTDOOR LIGHTING SECTION OR THE
NON CONFORMITY SECTION TO
ADDRESS NONCONFORMING LIGHTING
OR OLDER LIGHTING THE HILLS
SENIOR LIVING COMMUNITY AND
SITE WHICH I MENTIONED IS ON
THE EAST SIDE OF AIRPORT ROAD
23 WAS ORIGINALLY APPROVED IN
1972 AND HAS BEEN EXPANDED
SINCE TO COVER A LOT OF GROUND
.
A LOT OF BUILDINGS HAVE MANY
DWELLING UNITS AND FACILITIES,
NURSING CARE BEDS.
IT WAS A PLANNED PROJECT SITE
PLAN WHICH IS NOW NONCONFORMING
BECAUSE THOSE PROVISIONS HAVE
BEEN REPEALED.
>> THE PLANNED PROJECT ALLOWED
AN INCREASE IN BUILDING HEIGHT
OVER THE MAXIMUM PERMITTED AND
A DECREASE IN THE TYPICAL
PARKING SETBACKS.
>> THEN NONCONFORMING PLANNED
PROJECTS MAY CONTINUE AND ARE
SPECIFICALLY CALLED OUT IN THE
COLD AND MAY CONTINUE AND
EXPAND AS PROVIDED IN ARTICLE
SIX NONCONFORMITY PROVIDED THAT
THESE CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
FOR WHICH THEY'RE BASED ON ARE
MAINTAINED RECENTLY VLIEGER
HILLS APPLIED FOR THAT SITE
PLAN FOR PLANNING MANAGER
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT FOR
MULTIBEAM GARAGE BUILDINGS.
JOHN, CAN YOU CLEAR SOMETHING
ADMINISTRATOR CAN GO TO THE
NEXT LINE.
>> THOSE BUILDINGS ARE
HIGHLIGHTED IN BRIGHT WHITE OR
THOSE BUILDINGS ARE THE BRIGHT
WHITE PRETTY CLOSE TO TWENTY
THREE.
TWENTY THREE IS THE ABSOLUTE
CUTTING ACROSS THE BOTTOM RIGHT
OF THE IMAGE THERE AND THOSE
BUILDINGS ARE WHERE BUILDINGS
WILL HOUSE ABOUT TWENTY EIGHT
VEHICLES.
THE SITE PLAN APPROVAL INCLUDED
A LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION TO
ALLOW LANDSCAPE ELEMENTS TO
REMAIN WITHOUT ALTERATION.
THAT IS A THING IN THE CODE BUT
THERE ARE NO SUCH CODE , NO
SUCH PROVISIONS FOR LIGHTING
THE OUTDOOR LIGHTING SECTION IN
CODE WAS RECENTLY AMENDED IN
TWENTY TWENTY ONE WITH NEW
STANDARDS AND IT READS ALL
LIGHTING THAT CAUSES EXTERIOR
ILLUMINATION AFTER SUNSET AND
BEFORE SUNRISE SHALL BE SUBJECT
TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS
SECTION.
THERE ARE LIMITED EXCEPTIONS
BUT THEY DON'T ADDRESS.
THEY ADDRESS MORE LIKE
TEMPORARY LIGHTING.
THEY DON'T ADDRESS EXISTING
LIGHTING SO THEREFORE WE'VE HAD
TO APPLY THE STANDARDS TO THE
ENTIRE SITE.
THE APPLICANT IS REQUESTING THE
VARIOUS FROM SECTION FIVE
TWENTY FIVE TO TO APPLY THE
STANDARDS ONLY TO THE LIGHTING
ASSOCIATED WITH THOSE GARAGES
AND TO ALLOW ANY EXISTING
LIGHTING THAT'S ON THE SITE
OF WHICH THERE'S A LOT TO
REMAIN.
THEY DID HAVE THE SITE
EVALUATED BY A LIGHTING
PROFESSIONAL.
THE EVALUATION WAS NOT A FULL
PHOTOMETRIC PLAN OR THE LEVEL
OF SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS BUT
IT WAS AN EVALUATION VIOLATING
PROFESSIONAL THAT CONCLUDED
THAT SOME OF THE EXISTING
LIGHTING DOES COMPLY BUT DOES
NOT STOP.
THERE IS NO INFORMATION.
THERE'S NOT ENOUGH INFORMATION.
THE DATA SHEETS OR THE SHEETS
OF THE PRODUCT ARE NOT
AVAILABLE TO BE ABLE TO
DETERMINE YES OR NO.
>> THE APPLICANT AS I MENTIONED
IS REQUESTING A VARIANCE FROM
ALL LIGHTING TO NEW OR PROPOSED
LIGHTING AND SUGGESTS THAT THE
EXISTING LIGHTING BE CONSIDERED
LEGAL NONCONFORMING.
THE STAFF REPORT GOES THROUGH
THE STANDARDS OF APPROVAL
PROVIDING THE CRITERIA THE
BOARD MUST APPLY OR SHOULD
APPLY AND APPLICANT STATEMENTS
TO EACH ONE.
I AM AVAILABLE FOR ANY
QUESTIONS AS WELL AS MR OH
SORRY THERE'S NO THIS IS THIS
WOULD YOU CONSIDER THE MAIN
ENTRANCE OF THE GLACIAL HILLS
SITE?
>> THAT PARTICULAR ENTRANCE IS
LOCATED ON THE EAST SIDE OF THE
SITE SORT OF MIDWAY ALONG ITS
FRONTAGE ON YOUR HEART
FOR
GREAT THANKS.
>> LET'S JUST REAL QUICK BEFORE
WE GO I FORGOT TO ASK ABOUT
RECUSING MYSELF FOR THIS
PETITION SO IT'S UP TO THE
BOARD TO DECIDE IF I SHOULD.
>> THEY FEEL THERE'S ANY
CONFLICT OF INTEREST, THERE'S A
CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
I'M COMFORTABLE THAT YOU HAVE
LESS OF A CONFLICT OF INTEREST
THAN SUPREME COURT JUSTICE
CLARENCE THOMAS.
>> THANKS TO ALL AND I THINK WE
WOULD BE BENEFITED BY BY YOUR
BY YOUR EXPERTIZE AND
KNOWLEDGE.
I AGREE WITH YOU IN EVERYTHING
YOU SAID BUT THANK YOU.
THAT'S A GOOD QUESTIONS FOR
JOHN OR ALEXIS TODD OR DAVE AND
WITH THE QUESTION PEOPLE.
>> SO I TAKE IT THAT THE CHANGE
IN LIGHTING IN TWENTY IN TWENTY
TWENTY ONE WAS TO REDUCE THE
ILLUMINATION AND MORE DIMLY
LIGHT SERVICES IS THAT CORRECT?
>> THAT IS MY WORKING
UNDERSTANDING.
>> OK, WAS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
THAT PERHAPS IN A NURSING
FACILITY WITH OLD PEOPLE WHO
HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT BLACK ICE
UNDER SNOW WHO WERE NOT VERY
GOOD IN THEIR FEET MIGHT
BENEFIT FROM BRIGHT LIGHTING
THAT IS STANDARD THAT MAKES
PERFECT SENSE AND A RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE PEOPLE CLOSE
SHOP AT TEN O'CLOCK DOES NOT
MAKE SENSE FOR A NURSING HOME.
ANY DISCUSSION ABOUT THAT?
I WAS NOT DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN
THE WRITING OF THE NEW LIVING
STANDARDS I WILL ASSUME THAT NO
INDIVIDUAL LAND USE WAS
DISCUSSED.
I THINK THAT THE DISCUSSIONS
WERE PROBABLY FOCUSED ON THE
HIGHER LEVEL OF THE COMMUNITY
GOALS THAT WERE STATED IN THE
INTENT STATEMENT.
>> OK, SO I HAVE A CONCERN
WITHOUT KNOWING HOW MUCH
LIGHTING HAS BEEN REDUCE THAT
WE'RE GOING TO BE REDUCING
LIGHTING IN AN ELDERLY CARE
FACILITY AND IF YOU'RE GOING TO
REDUCE LIGHTING SOMEWHERE THE
LEAST ACCEPTABLE PLACE TO
REDUCE LIGHTING AND MY THINKING
WOULD BE IN AN ELDERLY CARE
FACILITY CAN YOU ADDRESS MY
CONCERN, MA'AM?
>> WELL, I DON'T BELIEVE THAT
THE THE NEW STANDARDS REDUCE
THE LEVELS OF ILLUMINATION.
I THINK THEY ARE FOCUSED ON
MAKING SURE THERE IS NO GLARE
EXTENDED OFF OFF THE PROPERTY
AND MAKING SURE THERE'S NO
GLARE OR I'M BLANKING ON THE
CORRECT TERM.
>> BUT THE BOARD DIRECTED LIKE
COLD DARK SKIES.
YES, LIKE A DARK SKY.
IT'S THE TERMINOLOGY DARK DARK
SKY COMPLIANT LIGHTING LIKE SO
I I HONESTLY DON'T KNOW AND I
DON'T THINK THE INTENTION WAS
TO MAKE THINGS DIMMER.
I THINK I THINK THE INTENTION
IS TO MAKE THINGS MORE FOCUSED,
MORE DOWN, MORE DIRECTED, MORE
SHIELDED AND PERHAPS AT A
BETTER COOLER TEMPERATURE TO
ACTUALLY PROVIDE THE CONTRAST
NEEDED GOOD LAST QUESTION I
GUESS SINCE I HAVE YOU WHAT IS
THE FINE WHAT'S THE FINANCIAL
IMPACT OF THE DENIAL OF THE
VARIANCE I WILL HAVE TO DEFER
THAT TO MANY OF THE
REPRESENTATIVES OF YOUR HEALTH
OR THEIR AGENTS.
>> OK, THANK YOU MA'AM.
DAVE, DID YOU HAVE OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR JOHN OR ALEXIS?
>> YEAH, I HAD ONE QUESTION I
REMEMBER CHANGING LIGHTING
STANDARDS AND I I KNOW THAT IT
HAS TO BE MORE DARK SKY
COMPLIANT AND TO TRY TO REDUCE
UPWARD LIGHTING WHILE
MAINTAINING ADEQUATE LIGHT
WHERE IT'S NEEDED ON THE
SURFACES FOR SURFACE USE AND
ALSO TO USE TIMING DEVICES TO
TO MAKE LIKE THAT THE DEAD OF
NIGHT REDUCE THE AMOUNT
OF LIGHT AVAILABLE.
I'M WONDERING DO THESE
STANDARDS I DON'T REMEMBER IF
WE ALSO TO MEET SUSTAINABILITY
GOALS IF WE PUT ANY SORT
REQUIREMENTS TO HAVE LOW ENERGY
USAGE LEDS AS PART OF LIGHTING
INSTALLATIONS.
JOHN, DO YOU KNOW IF WE DID
THAT AS PART OF THE PLANNING
WHEN WE DID THE LIGHTING
REGULATIONS?
SO I'M NOT SURE IT SPECIFICALLY
STATES IT HAS TO BE LED
IF I'M
WRONG, ALEXA, JUST INTERRUPT ME
BUT IT HAS TO DO WITH LIGHT
POINTING DOWN SHIELD THAT WAS
JUST SO LIGHT TRESPASS ON THE
ADJACENT PROPERTIES ARE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAYS AND IT HAS TO DO
WITH LIGHT IN THEIR HEAT AND
HEAT AND COLOR.
BUT I DON'T THINK IT
SPECIFICALLY INCLUDES OR
EXCLUDES LED LIGHTING.
OK THANK YOU ARE THE QUESTIONS
FOR STEPH CHRISTINA YEAH.
SO THE ZONE CAN SOMEBODY RUN A
CURSOR OVER THE ZONE OF THE
EXISTING LIGHT FIXTURES IS THAT
ARE THE NEW FIXTURES ONLY
ADJACENT TO THE FOUR NEW
STRUCTURES SOME TURNOVER STAND
LITERALLY WALL MOUNTED SORT
OF CARRIAGE LIGHTS ON THE FRONT
OF THOSE FOUR LARGE BUILDINGS
EXISTING LIKE EXISTING LIGHTING
SPREAD ALL THROUGHOUT THE
BUILDING.
THERE'S BUILDING LIGHTING,
THERE'S PEDESTRIAN SCALE
LIGHTING, THERE'S LIGHTED
BOLLARDS, THERE'S PARKING LOT
LIGHTING, DOORWAY LIGHTING,
ACCENT LIGHTING, YOU NAME IT.
>> IT'S A 32 ACRE SITE.
>> IT HAS LIGHTING ALL OVER IT.
I UNDERSTAND THAT.
BUT I WAS JUST TRYING TO GAUGE
BECAUSE THERE'S BEEN MANY
DIFFERENT PROJECTS IMPLEMENTED
ON THE SITE THROUGH VARIOUS
DECADES.
SO I WAS JUST TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND WHEN ALL OF THAT
WAS, YOU KNOW, COMING INTO
PLAY.
SO THE FIXTURES IN QUESTION NOW
ARE ONLY CARRIAGE LIGHT
FIXTURES.
THEY'RE NOT THE POLE TYPE IS
THAT CORRECT?
>> THERE'S GOING THE NEW
BUILDING COME WITH SORT
OF CARRIAGE CARRIAGEWAYS ON
THEM AND THOSE AND THOSE WILL
COMPLY OR THEY'LL DO COMPLY
WITH THE LIGHTING STANDARDS.
IT'S ALL OF THE REST OF THE
SITE.
IT MAY OR MAY NOT COMPLY.
I SEE.
OK AND THESE STRUCTURES MAYBE I
MISSED IT EARLIER.
>> WHAT IS THE PRINCIPLE USED
FOR WHOM ARE THESE STRUCTURES
FOR?
IS IT STAFF OR IS IT THE
INDEPENDENT RESIDENTS IN THIS
AREA INDEPENDENT RESIDENTS,
INDEPENDENT RESIDENTS.
>> OK, LAST QUESTION.
THE ATTACHMENT THAT WE RECEIVED
FROM GAZZARD BUSH ELIDING I
DON'T VENDORS THE RIGHT I GUESS
SALES YOU KNOW THAT'S HIS TITLE
.
SO THAT WAS REQUESTED AT THE BY
THE APPLICANT NO HOW DOES THIS
COME INTO PLAY THIS TWO PAGE
DOCUMENT WHICH IS PART OF THE
FLIGHT PLAN FOR OUR COMMENT AND
ONE OF THE REVIEW CYCLES WAS
ALL LIKE WHO NEEDS TO COMPLY
WITH THE CURRENT STANDARD
EITHER PROPOSE A NEW BINDING OR
THE ENTIRE SITE OR TO
DEMONSTRATE THAT THE EXISTING
LIGHTING COMPLIES AND THE
AFRICANS RESPONSE WAS THAT IS A
HERCULEAN TASK VIRTUALLY
IMPOSSIBLE.
WE CAN'T DO THAT.
SOME OF THE SOME OF THE
LIGHTING PICTURES ARE JUST
SIMPLY TOO OLD THAT WE HAVE NO
DATA ON THEM IN LIEU OF MEETING
THE CODE STANDARDS FOR ALL
OF THE PLANS AND PHOTOMETRIC
AND KUCZYNSKI AND SO FORTH.
THEY HAD A LIGHTING.
THEY HAD THIS LIGHTING
PROFESSIONAL GO OUT AND PROVIDE
HIS VISUAL ASSESSMENT OF WHAT
IS GOING.
>> SURE.
AND THAT IS THAT IS INCLUDED AS
IT'S USEFUL AND HELPFUL
INFORMATION PROVIDED A LOT
OF BACKGROUND BUT IN POINT
OF FACT IT DOES NOT COMPLY WITH
THE REQUIREMENTS FOR SITE PLAN
APPROVAL FOR REQUIRED LIGHTING
INFORMATION AND MAYBE I'M GOING
DOWN A RABBIT HOLE HERE BUT I
MEAN THERE AGAIN THERE IS VERY
THERE A SECTION OF THIS
DEVELOPMENT IS IS FAIRLY RECENT
SO I'D BE SURPRISED THERE'S NOT
SOME HISTORICAL INFORMATION TO
PROVIDE AN ACCURATE ENOUGH
PHOTOMETRIC ANALYSIS OF THE
SITE.
I I'M VERY SURPRISED THAT THAT
DATA IS NOT AVAILABLE AT LEAST
TO BUILD A PHOTOMETRIC BASED ON
ASSUMPTIONS OF THE ERA OF THAT
LIGHT FIXTURE.
SO IT'S NOT LIKE THIS IS A
NINETEEN THIRTIES, THE NINETEEN
FIFTIES DEVELOPMENT.
I MEAN AGAIN THERE'S BEEN MANY
STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT AND
WITHIN A REASONABLE TIME FRAME
JUST AN OBSERVATION THANKS IF I
WILL JUST ADD THAT I'VE THOUGHT
ALONE IS NOT ENOUGH TO
DETERMINE COMPLIANCE WITH ANY
OF THE OUTLINING SECTION OF THE
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION NEEDED
IS REGARDING THE COLOR SPECTRUM
SO ONE CAN ONLY CREATE A
PHOTOMETRIC PLAN ALONE JUST
SHOWING THAT WHAT CAPITAL
LEVELS OK BUT THAT DOESN'T THAT
DOESN'T GET TO ALL OF THE
LEVELS OF INFORMATION REQUIRED.
>> OK THAT HELPS THANK DO SO
THE PURPOSE OF THE VARIANCE
REQUEST AS I UNDERSTAND IT IS
TO AVOID BRINGING THE ENTIRE
GLACIER HILL SITE INTO
COMPLIANCE WITH OUR LIGHTING
STANDARDS, OUR NEW LIGHTING
STANDARDS.
THEY ARE ONLY THEY ONLY WANT TO
BRING THE NEW THESE NEW GARAGES
FOR THESE NEW WHAT THIS NEW
DEVELOPMENT TO MEET OUR
LIGHTING STANDARDS AND LEAVE
EVERYTHING ELSE ALONE.
AND THAT'S WHY THIS VARIANCE
HAS BEEN REQUESTED AND HAS
CONFIRMED
YOU QUESTIONS FOR
STAFF.
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONERS PLEASE COME
FORWARD, STATE YOUR NAME FOR
THE RECORD.
>> YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
GOOD EVENING, COMMISSIONER.
I DIDN'T STOP THAT.
I'M A CIVIL ENGINEER WITH
MIDWESTERN CONSULTING.
NICE TO SEE YOU ALL IN PERSON
AGAIN AFTER A COUPLE OF YEARS
TONIGHT WE ARE HERE BEFORE YOU
ASKING FOR A VARIANCE FROM THE
LIGHTING SECTION OF THE NEW UDC
.
WE STARTED THIS PROJECT WITH
THE RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES NEED
TO MEET AND DESIRE TO PROVIDE
FOR SEASON COVERAGE FOR
RESIDENTS WHO LIVE IN ONE
DORMITORY STYLE BUILDINGS.
SOME OF THE DETACHED
STRUCTURES, DUPLEXES AND WHAT
HAVE YOU OUT AT THE SITE MORE
INDEPENDENT LIVING HAVE THEIR
OWN GARAGES BUT SOME OF THE
DORMITORIES DON'T.
THEY'VE BEEN OUTDOOR PARKING
SPACES OBVIOUSLY EXPOSED TO THE
ELEMENTS AND I DON'T THINK I
NEED TO EXPLAIN WHY THERE'S A
DESIRE TO HAVE ENCLOSED PARKING
FOR THOSE PARTICULAR RESIDENTS.
WE GOT HERE AS ALEXIS DESCRIBED
BY GOING THROUGH A SITE PLAN
FOR PLANNING MANAGERS APPROVAL.
WE GOT THROUGH THE PROCESS ALL
THE VARIOUS DIFFERENT STAGES
THAT WE NEEDED TO GO TO BUT WE
GOT HUNG ON THE REQUIREMENT TO
PROVIDE A PHOTOMETRIC PLAN FOR
THE ENTIRETY OF THE SITE.
THIS SITE HAS BEEN UNDER
CONSTRUCTION SINCE THE MID
SEVENTIES.
IT HAS A VARIETY OF LIGHT
STYLES AND INTENSITIES AND
FIXTURES AND DATA JUST DOESN'T
EXIST FOR ALL OF THESE LIGHTS
OUT THERE.
SOME OF THEM HAVE BEEN MODIFIED
OVER THE YEARS AND SO WHEN YOU
PUT TOGETHER A PHOTOMETRIC PLAN
AND SOMEONE POINTED OUT A
PHOTOMETRIC PLAN ONLY GIVES YOU
ONE PIECE OF THE PUZZLE ALL
OF THE NEW LIGHTING STANDARDS
ARE USE METRICS THAT APPLY
SPECIFICALLY TO LED BULBS.
THOSE METRICS HAVE NO MEANING
TO OLDER INCANDESCENT BULBS AND
ESPECIALLY OLDER INCANDESCENT
BULBS THAT SOME OF THEM HAVE
BEEN RETROFITTED WITH OLED
CORNCOBS LIKE JUST LIKE YOU
RETROFIT YEARS OLD WITH FITS IN
THERE.
BUT IT'S A IT'S A DIRECT LED
PICTURE AND IT'S A GEOMETRY
WITH A FROSTED GLASS AND SO
THERE'S NO WAY TO DETERMINE
EXACTLY WHAT THE WHAT SCALE IS
,WHAT THE INTENSITY IS AND SO
TRYING TO PROVIDE PHOTOMETRIC
THE WAY YOU CAN WITH A NEW A
NEW INSTALLATION, A NEW FIXTURE
IS IMPOSSIBLE AND A NEW FIXTURE
.
THEY HAVE A COMPUTER MODULE
THAT REPRESENTS EACH LIGHT
FIXTURE AND ITS GEOMETRY IN ITS
INTENSITY AND IN ITS WARP SCALE
AND BY GROUPING THEM ALL
TOGETHER IN A SITE THEY CAN
ASSEMBLE A PHOTOMETRIC SCALE
ACCURATELY PREDICT THE LIGHTING
CHARACTERISTICS WITH A SITE
THAT'S THIRTY TWO ACRES IN SIZE
AND LITERALLY HUNDREDS
OF FIXTURES IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO
TO REALLY DO THAT.
SO WE DID OUR BEST.
WE HAD SOMEONE GO OUT AND LOOK
AT THE SITE AND EVALUATE THINGS
AND HE LOOKED AT BULBS THAT
THEY WERE USING AS REPLACEMENTS
AND HE NOTED THAT SOME OF THE
LIGHTING OBVIOUSLY COMPLIED.
SOME OF IT DIDN'T COMPLY AND
SOME OF IT EITHER LIKELY
COMPLIED OR MOST LIKELY DIDN'T
COMPLY.
CAN'T REMEMBER THE STUFF THE
PICTURES THAT MOST LIKELY
DIDN'T COMPLY OR DIDN'T COMPLY
OR REPLACEMENT BULBS LEDS THAT
THEY HAD PUT IN EXISTING
FIXTURES.
HOWEVER, THE LIGHT BULB
THEMSELF ON ITS OWN MERIT IF IT
WAS UNSHIELDED JUST OUT IN THE
OPEN WOULD NOT COMPLY.
BUT IN THE THE VANILLA GLASS
FROSTED FIXTURE THAT IT'S IN IT
PRODUCES A WHOLE DIFFERENT
LIGHT.
AND I THINK IT WAS A VERY GOOD
POINT THAT SOMEONE BROUGHT UP
ABOUT YOU KNOW, DO WE REALLY
WANT TO MINIMIZE LIGHT IN A
FACILITY LIKE THIS?
YOU TRY NOT TO DO THINGS LIKE
THAT IN HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS AND
AN ELDERLY CARE PLACE.
SO FACTORY PRACTICAL HARDSHIP
IS JUST DETERMINING HOW TO
PROVIDE THIS ON SITE THIS BIG
IF WE HAD A SINGLE SITE, A GAS
STATION FOR INSTANCE, YOU KNOW
THEY HAD THREE FIXTURES OR
SOMETHING IT WOULD BE A LOT
EASIER.
IT'S A THIRTY TWO ACRE CAMPUS.
I MEAN THERE'S SO MANY
VARIABLES HERE THAT WE JUST IT
WAS JUST IT WAS A PRACTICAL
HARDSHIP THAT WE COULDN'T
OVERCOME AND AS I SAID, THE NEW
LIGHTING STANDARDS APPLY IN LED
METRICS AND SO WE DON'T EVEN
HAVE A WAY TO APPLY THEM TO
SOME OF THE OLD FIXTURES.
>> SO I MEAN TONIGHT WE'RE JUST
WE'RE ASKING VARIANCE FROM THE
STATEWIDE ELEMENT OF THE
LIGHTING COMPLIANCE.
WE'RE COMPLYING WITH THE THE
NEW ORDINANCE FOR THE NEW
BUILDINGS THAT ARE BEING PUT
THE NEW GARAGES AND THE ANSWER
A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS VERY
QUICKLY.
FINANCIAL IMPACT IS REALLY NOT
A FINANCIAL IMPACT IS ALL ABOUT
THE QUALITY OF LIFE IMPACT.
THERE'S NO SURE THE PUBLIC THEM
IN THE WHOLE SCHOOL, THE SCOPE
OF THINGS IT'S REALLY NOT A BIG
DEAL FINANCIALLY.
IT'S JUST A QUALITY OF LIFE
ISSUE LIGHTING STANDARDS TO
COMMISSIONER GLASS LIKE I SAID,
THEY'RE ALL LED METRIC SO IT'S
HARD TO APPLY THEM.
AND HOW DID WE GET IN HERE?
HOW DID THE GAS BUSH COME INTO
PLAY?
WE REQUESTED AND WE HAD A
PRIVATE EVALUATION SO I'M HAPPY
TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS YOU
MIGHT HAVE.
>> THANK QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER TODD.
>> MR. PRESIDENT, MR. BENSEL, I
WOULD DISTINGUISH REGARDING
PRACTICAL HANDICAP'S BETWEEN
THE INABILITY TO PROVIDE ALL
THE DATA FOR THE COMPLETE
PHOTOMETRIC PLAN AND TO SATISFY
THE CITY IS POSED THE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES FOR THE FACILITY
GOING FORWARD.
AND IF I UNDERSTAND YOU
CORRECTLY, WHAT YOU'RE REALLY
SAYING IS IF YOU HAD TO COMPLY
WITH THE NEW LIGHTING
STANDARDS, IT'S REALLY NOT THAT
BIG A FINANCIAL IMPACT EVEN IF
IT MEANS YOU HAVE TO RIP OUT
SOME LIGHTS THAT YOU CAN'T
PROVIDE DATA FOR, IT'S JUST NOT
THAT BIG A DEAL.
>> I TOOK IT TO MEAN IF IF THE
VARIANCE WAS NOT APPROVED AND
WE COULDN'T BUILD THE GARAGES,
WHAT FINANCIAL IMPACT WOULD
THAT HAVE?
>> I'M SORRY I MISUNDERSTOOD
YOUR QUESTION.
I DON'T THINK THE ISSUE BEFORE
US IS WHETHER YOU'RE BUILDING
THE GARAGES OR NOT IS THE
QUESTION OF WHAT TYPE
OF LIGHTING THE FACILITY IS
GOING TO HAVE.
SO LET ME REPHRASE MY QUESTION.
IF YOU DIDN'T GET THE OK TO
IGNORE THE EXISTING LIGHT
FIXTURES, YOU HAD TO BRING ALL
THE LIGHT FIXTURES UP TO THE
2021 STANDARDS.
IS THAT GOING TO HAVE A
FINANCIAL IMPACT ON THE PLACE?
>> I THINK IT WOULD HAVE A
SIGNIFICANT YOU HAVE AN IDEA
WHICH I THINK TWO HUNDRED
THOUSAND ARE WE TALKING FIFTY
THOUSAND WHAT ARE WE TALKING
HERE?
>> I'M NOT QUALIFIED TO GUESS
BUT I WOULD SUSPECT IT'S
PROBABLY CLOSE.
IT'S IN THE SIX FIGURES BEHIND
THE QUESTIONS.
>> SO SCOTT, I WE'VE HAD OVER
THE PAST COUPLE OF YEARS SOME
LARGE DEVELOPMENTS LIKE THIS.
THEY COME IN MOSTLY PRE
EXISTING AND THEY JUST WANT TO
ADD SOMETHING IN REGARD TO OUR
REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRIC
VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS.
YEAH.
AND THE DEVELOPERS COME IN AND
THEY PROPOSE WHILE WE CAN'T DO
A NEW ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGERS
ALL OVER THE PLACE THAT WOULD
BE ECONOMICALLY ECONOMICAL CHIP
.
>> BUT WE WILL DO THIS AND
FREQUENTLY IT'S MORE THAN JUST
THE NEW GARAGES OR STRUCTURES
BUT IT'S ACTUALLY BRINGING THAT
PART OF THEIR FACILITY OR THEIR
DEVELOPMENT INTO COMPLIANCE.
WE'RE CLOSER TO COMPLYING WITH
OUR REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL
VEHICLE CHARGERS.
I LOOK AT THIS IN PARALLEL WITH
OUR LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS AND
OUR OUR DESIRE TO BE DARK SKY
COMPLY AND TO REDUCE LIGHTING
GOING UP INTO THE BROADER
ENVIRONMENT AND IT'S SEEMS LIKE
IT WOULD BE BENEFICIAL TO THE
CITY AND TO THE COMMUNITY IF
THE GLACIER HELPS PEOPLE COULD
COME FORWARD WITH SOME SORT
OF A PLAN WHEN YOU WHEN YOU
BRING IN AND ASK FOR YOUR SITE
PLAN TO ADD THIS TO YOUR SITE
PLAN OF A PLAN TO UNDERTAKE
SOME UPGRADES OF YOUR LIGHTING
SYSTEM TO BRING IT MAYBE NOT
THE WHOLE THING BUT BRING PARTS
OF YOUR FACILITY, ESPECIALLY
PARTS THAT ARE WOULD HAVE LESS
OF A FULL IMPACT ON SENIOR
CITIZENS WHO MAY NOT BE EASILY
MOBILE.
BUT ANYWAY, I'M JUST SAYING
THAT I I'M USUALLY ENCOURAGED
WHY NOT DEVELOP DEVELOPER
PROPOSER THAT WANTS TO MAKE A
CHANGE COMES BEFORE US AND SAYS
OK, I CAN'T DO EVERYTHING
YOU'RE ASKING BUT I CAN DO
SOMETHING THAT GOES A LONG WAY
AND IT HELPS THE CITY TO MEET
ITS GOALS BOTH FOR IN THIS CASE
DARK SKY COMPLIANCE AND IN THE
CASE OF THE ELECTRIC VEHICLE
CHARGERS SUSTAINABILITY.
I JUST PUT THAT OUT THERE.
I'M NOT ASKING TO RESPOND BUT I
DO ASK YOU TO TAKE THAT BACK TO
THE PEOPLE.
>> OF COURSE YOUR HEALTH IS
SOMETHING THAT THE CITY WOULD
LIKE TO SEE TO THAT END
WHATEVER NONCOMPLIANCE ELEMENT
THAT THE LIGHTING CONSULTANT
DISCOVERED WAS SOME OF THE THE
CORNCOB LED PICTURES THAT
THEY'RE REPLACING OUT IN THE
PARKING OUT WHERE FIVE THOUSAND
KELVIN AND THREE THOUSAND
KELVIN IS THE CITY CURRENTLY
THAT'S THE NEW STANDARD WHICH
PRODUCES A WARMER LIGHT.
NOW THIS ALSO IS IN THE FIXTURE
I DESCRIBED THIS AS VANILLA
FROSTED GLASS.
BUT WHAT WE AGREED TO AND I
DON'T KNOW IF IT'S BEEN
MEMORIALIZED IN ANY WAY, SHAPE
OR FORM IS THAT AS THEY REPLACE
THESE IN THE FUTURE THEY WOULD
REPLACE THEM WITH THREE
THOUSAND KELVIN WARMTH INSTEAD
OF THE FIVE THOUSAND THAT
THEY'VE USED IN THE PAST.
>> ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITION?
YEAH, I'VE GOT ONE DAVID HERE
FOR YOU BECAUSE WE'VE BEEN
ASKING THAT QUESTION.
SO OBVIOUSLY EVERY BUSINESS
FACES A FINANCIAL INCENTIVE IF
YOU CAN GET THE SAME
ILLUMINATION WITH A LOWER
WATTAGE I GUESS BULB THAT
PRODUCES LESS HEAT WASTE THAT'S
BETTER HAS A GLACIER HILL'S
UNDERTAKEN SOME OF THAT AND
UPDATED THEIR LIGHT BULBS AND
SO ON OR IS IT THAT THE AGE
OF THE LIGHT BULBS PREVENTS
THAT?
>> NO, I THINK THEY'VE REPLACED
MANY OF THE BULBS WITH LED
BULBS.
IT'S JUST THAT THE REPLACEMENT
STARTED IN PREDATED THIS NEW
LIGHTING STANDARD THAT
MEMORIALIZED WHAT THE STANDARDS
ARE IS THE PROBLEM.
>> SO I'M SURE I'M SURE WHAT
THEY DID IS THEY TRIED DID YOU
GUYS GO THROUGH THIS PHASE
OF LEDS?
I'VE A WHOLE CLOSETFUL LEDS ARE
UNSUITABLE FOR ONE REASON OR
ANOTHER.
YOU PLUG THEM.
NOPE, THAT'S NOT DOING THAT
RIGHT.
AND ONE OF THE GLOBE AT WORK
THERE WE CAN LIVE WITH THAT.
SO I'VE GOT A WHOLE FOUR
OF THOSE THAT I'M QUITE SURE
THEY PROBABLY WENT THROUGH THE
WHOLE THING AND THEY TRIED A
LED AND A FIXTURE AND SAID OH
THAT'S NOT NOT RIGHT AS WE HAD
BEFORE LET'S TRY A DIFFERENT
ONE.
SO I'M QUITE SURE THEY DIDN'T
INTEND WHEN THEY REPLACED THEM
TO TO LIGHT UP THE SKY IS
BRIGHTER THAN THEY WERE.
I MEAN THEY'RE FOCUSED ON
SAFETY AND THEY HAVE RESIDENTS
HAVE WINDOWS THAT DON'T LIKE TO
LOOK OUT INTO BRIGHT LIGHTS AS
WELL.
AND SO I WITHOUT HAVING HEARD
SO DIRECTLY I'M QUITE SURE THEY
PROBABLY JUST TRIED TO REPLACE
LIKE WITH LIKE WITH NEW
TECHNOLOGY.
THE QUESTIONS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, PLEASE COME
FORWARD.
ANYONE ACCESSING THE MEETING
REMOTELY OR CALLING IN PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE OR USE THE RACE
HAND FEATURE AND BE INFORMED
THERE ARE REMOTE CALLERS.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
WITH THAT SAID, THE PUBLIC
HEARINGS CLOSED.
WE WERE IN DISCUSSION GRACE, I
WOULD JUST LIKE TO SAY THAT
LIKE ALEXIS SAID, I THINK THAT
IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT THE
SITE PLAN WAS APPROVED AT ONE
TIME AND IT WAS IN COMPLIANCE
AND ALSO THAT THE ALTERNATIVE
TO WAIVING THIS IS TO REPLACE
ALL OF THE LIGHTS AND THAT JUST
SEEMS SO EXORBITANT AND A HUGE
UNDERTAKING.
IT WOULD BE SIMILAR TO, YOU
KNOW, IF THE LANDSCAPING DIDN'T
COMPLY.
YOU HAVE START OVER AND REDO
ALL THE LANDSCAPING FOR THE
SITE.
BUT IN THE ORDINANCE THERE'S A
PROVISION FOR UPDATING ONLY THE
LATEST PART TO HAVE TO COMPLY
AND I THINK THAT THERE SHOULD
BE SOME SORT OF CONSIDERATION
TO THAT WITH THE LIGHTING AS
WELL.
SO I'M INCLINED TO VOTE YES ON
THIS
.
>> I GUESS MY THOUGHTS ON THIS
WE ADOPTED THIS ORDINANCE FOR A
REASON.
THE REASONS MENTIONED EARLIER
SO SPECIFICALLY IN THAT
NONCONFORMING THING IS CAN BE
MAINTAINED.
BUT WHEN IT'S UPDATED AS TO BE
MADE COMPLIANT SO IF YOU LIKE
THIS SCENARIO IS THOUGHT
OF BEFORE ALSO I GUESS I'M NOT
SEEING HOW THE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY IS PECULIAR TO THE
PROPERTY.
I WOULD IMAGINE OTHER LARGE
SCALE PROPERTIES WOULD HAVE THE
SAME ISSUE.
THEY HAVE THE SAME EXPECTATIONS
.
YEAH, I'M JUST NOT SEEING THAT
THE STANDARDS ARE MET TO SAY
YES TO THIS JULIA I JUST KIND
OF WANT A SECOND.
I AGREE WITH DIAMON I AGREE
WITH WHAT DAVE SAID.
>> UM IT SEEMS LIKE IT WOULD BE
A HARDSHIP BUT I DON'T ACTUALLY
KNOW LIKE IF IT COST FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS THAT IS NOT A
HARDSHIP FOR GLACIER HILLS AND
IT WOULD BE A GREAT IMPROVEMENT
BECAUSE IT IS KIND OF A WOODSY
AREA.
IT WOULD BE VERY NICE TO HAVE
THE ORDINANCE BE IN EFFECT
THERE SO WITHOUT KNOWING THE
WHAT THE FINANCIAL HARDSHIP
ACTUALLY IS WITHOUT THERE
PRESENTING THAT WITH SOME
ATTEMPT TO DO THE MINIMAL
AMOUNT THIS WE GOT AN ALL OR
NOTHING AND THERE WAS NO
ATTEMPT ON THAT.
>> I'M INCLINED TO VOTE NO
TO
ANY OTHER I JUST KIND OF JUST
BACK TO THE COST.
I MEAN I WOULD BE FOR THE
APPLICANT GAVE HIS THOUGHTS ON
HOW EXPENSIVE IT WOULD BE.
I WAS THINKING ALSO SIX FIGURE
SO IT'S IT'S EXPENSIVE.
I THINK THE COST
MORE HOLISTIC
APPROACH OF UPGRADING THE
LIGHTING I THINK AS A
RECOMMENDATION.
SURE.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT WOULD BE
THAT WOULD BEHOOVE THEM AND THE
COMMUNITY I THINK TO START
UPGRADING IT BIT BY BIT.
BUT I TEND TO AGREE WITH WITH
GRACE THAT IT'S YOU KNOW, WHERE
DOES THAT STOP IF THE
LANDSCAPING IF THERE'S SOME
COMPONENT THAT NEEDS CHANGING
AND THE LANDSCAPING SIDE YOU
KNOW HOW FAR DO YOU TAKE THAT
ACROSS THIRTY TWO ACRES.
SO I'M IN THE CAMP OF VOTING TO
APPROVE THE VARIANCE.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION THAT'S
COMING BECAUSE I JUST WANTED TO
ADD BECAUSE I FORGOT TO SAY BUT
YOU I'M SORRY JULIA I DIDN'T
MEET YOU LAST TIME UM YOU KNOW
I ALSO THINK THAT BECAUSE
OF THE STANDARD TO HAVE THE
MINIMUM VARIANCE YOU KNOW I
DIDN'T REALLY SEE LIKE YOU SAID
THAT MAKING AN ATTEMPT TO GO AS
FAR AS THEY COULD WITH MEETING
THE STANDARD.
SO I THINK THAT ALSO WEIGHS IN
MY DECISION.
IT SEEMS LIKE THEY'RE DOING NOT
EVEN LIKE BARELY ANYTHING.
THEY'RE JUST TO THE NEW
STRUCTURE.
SO I DON'T REALLY SEE AN
ATTEMPT.
WELL, I'M SORT OF ON THE FENCE
FOR THIS BUT I WOULD NOT REPEAT
MY EARLIER COMMENT THAT IT'S
ALWAYS THE INSTITUTION'S
INTEREST TO MINIMIZE UTILITY
COST AND I IMAGINE THAT GLACIER
HILLS IS ALREADY REPLACED ALL
IT'S OLD FOR A LOT OF THE OLD
INEFFICIENT LIGHTS WITH GOOD
ONES.
THE PROBLEM APPARENTLY THEY
HAVE ACCORDING TO MR. BETTS WAS
THEY CAN'T DOCUMENT THAT THESE
LIGHTS WOULD BE UP TO THE
CURRENT STANDARDS.
SO THE ASSUMPTION TO BE THEN
THAT THE CITY WOULD MAKE THEM
CHANGE THAT BUT THAT MIGHT OR
NOT BE TRUE.
IT'S IT'S IT'S AN ISSUE I THINK
THERE ALREADY ARE INCENTIVES
FOR THEM TO IMPROVE THE
LIGHTING.
TO WHAT EXTENT IS LACKING?
IT'S UNKNOWN.
WE ALSO DON'T HAVE ANY
FINANCIAL INFORMATION IF THEY
HAD TO RIP OUT A LOT OF THE
LIGHTS.
SO I'M SORT OF ON THE FENCE
WITH THIS.
I'D HAVE ANOTHER COMMENT.
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT THE
CURRENT AREA OF CONSTRUCTION
THAT'S HAPPENING ON THE SITE IS
THAT T SHAPED BUILDING NOTES
THERE'S NOW THERE'S CONCURRENT
RENOVATION HAPPENING TO CONVERT
UNITS BUT YES, IT'S THE FOUR
BUILDINGS.
BUT I'M JUST SAYING IN RIGHT
ACROSS THAT INTERNAL ROADWAY
THAT'S WHERE THERE'S A
SIGNIFICANT CONVERSION
HAPPENING TO PROVIDE
INDEPENDENT MORE INDEPENDENT
LIVING.
I'VE SEEN THE ADVERTISEMENTS
AROUND THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> SO ANYWAYS, I'M JUST SAYING
THAT IT MAKES SENSE OBVIOUSLY
IN ADDITION TO THE FOUR
STRUCTURES THAT ARE BEING
PROPOSED THAT THIS IS ALL
HAPPENING IN THE SAME AREA
OF THE SITE.
IT'S A LOCALIZED AREA SO THAT'S
MY THAT'S MY POINT JUST SO
EVERYBODY UNDERSTANDS THE
CONTEXT OF CURRENT WORK THAT'S
BEING DONE ON SITE
, I I DO WANT
TO TAKEN BY YOUR COMMENT THAT
THEY HAVEN'T EVEN STEPPED
FORWARD AND TRIED TO ADDRESS,
YOU KNOW, OUR STANDARD THAT A
VARIANCE SHALL BE THE MINIMUM
VARIANCE TO MAKE POSSIBLE THE
USE OF THE LAND ALBEIT I WOULD
CHARACTERIZE IT AS THE USE
OF THIS NEW EDITION.
THEY HAVEN'T DONE THAT OR THEY
HAVEN'T DEMONSTRATED.
BUT I WANT TO ADD A PROVISO,
YOU KNOW, JUST LIKE I FEEL WITH
THE SIGN ORDINANCE WHEN WE'RE
ASKED TO MAKE A DISCUSSION OR
MAKE A VARIANCE THERE WITH THE
LIGHTING ORDINANCE WHICH THIS
IS THE FIRST ONE I CAN RECALL
SEEING OR WITH THE ELECTRICAL
VEHICLE CHARGING THESE
STANDARDS THAT WE'RE ASKED TO
TRY TO MEET DON'T FULLY APPLY
IN THOSE SITUATIONS AND WE
REALLY NEED SOME HELP FROM THE
PLANNING STAFF, THE PLANNING
DEPARTMENT TO CREATE US SOME
NEW VARIANTS DETERMINATION
WORKSHEETS FOR SIGN ORDINANCES
FOR ELECTRIC VEHICLE VARIANCES,
CHARGING VARIANCES AND NOW FOR
LIGHTING COMPLIANCE VARIANCES.
THOSE ARE THREE AREAS THAT IT
WOULD HELP US.
AS YOU KNOW, WE SERVE AS
VOLUNTEERS.
THE WE'RE NOT EXPERT SOME OF US
ARE EXPERTS IN ARCHITECTURAL
FIELDS AND BUILDING FIELDS BUT
WE'RE HERE TO MAKE JUDGMENTS ON
THESE THINGS AND IT HELPS US TO
BE GUIDED BY VARIANCE,
DETERMINATION, WORKSHEETS.
BUT IN THIS CASE I'M SWAYED BY
DARMA BY YOUR OBSERVATION THAT
THEY'RE NOT EVEN DOING THE
MINIMUM NECESSARY TO TRY TO
MAKE A FEW STEPS TOWARDS WHAT
WE'RE ASKING IN OUR CITY
ORDINANCES.
SO I THINK I'M GOING TO VOTE
AGAINST THIS.
I WAS ON THE FENCE BUT I DO
WANT TO GIVE THAT GUIDANCE TO
THE PLANNING STAFF ALSO AND I'M
READY TO TAKE MOTION ANY TIME
IN ANY OTHER DISCUSSION.
>> WE'RE READY FOR MOTION.
I THINK WE'RE READY.
DAVE, THANK YOU.
>> I ZEBA TWENTY THREE EUROS
EURO ZERO NINE FOUR ZERO EIGHT
ZERO GLACIER HILLS DRIVE IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL, THIS
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS INVARIANCE FROM SECTION
FIVE POINT TWENTY NINE POINT
EIGHT SUBSECTION PHOTOMETRIC
PLAN TO ALLOW THE DEVELOPER TO
UPGRADE THE OUTDOOR LIGHTING
ONLY FOR THE PORTION OF THE
SITE THAT IS BEING DEVELOPED
RATHER THAN THE ENTIRE CASTLE.
THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO SUPPORT.
THANK CHRISTINA.
YES JULIA NO TODD YES GRACE.
YES I VOTE YES DRAMA NO MIKE NO
DAVE NO.
THE REQUEST IS DENIED.
>> MOVING ON TO PETITION CBA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO
ZERO EIGHT THREE THREE ONE ZERO
WASHTENAW AVENUE JUMP.
MATT KOWALSKI FROM THE PLANNING
STAFF WILL BE PRESENTING THE
NEXT PETITION.
BUT WE'RE YOU GOOD BYE.
>> HEAR ME OK WE CAN HEAR YOU
MAN.
I ALWAYS GO OK THANK YOU.
SO EXCITE TODAY LOCATED ON
WASHTENAW DIRECTLY EAST SORRY.
YES I'M HERE I'M PART WHITE AND
ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF WASHINGTON
AND YOU CAN SEE AN OUTLINE
HERE.
THE SUBJECT LINE IS GOING TO BE
READ WHICH IS A FRINGE
COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT.
YOU CAN SEE ADJACENT TO IT TO
THE SOUTH IS WHAT'S ACTUALLY
ZONED OFFICE BUT IT'S USED
RESIDENTIAL AS YOU CAN SEE THE
GROUP OF BUILDINGS HERE AS WELL
AS THE SITE KIND OF TO THE
SOUTH A LITTLE BIT OVER THAT
ZONED R3 WHICH IS TOWNHOMES.
>> SO IF WE COULD GO THE NEXT
SLIDE PLEASE.
>> I'M TRYING MATT THE THE
KEYBOARD IS NOT WORKING VERY
WELL WITH ME TONIGHT.
>> THERE WE GO.
OK, NO HOLD ON.
YOU CAN EVEN GET YOU KNOW THERE
WE GO.
OK HERE AGAIN OBVIOUSLY AN AREA
ON THE SUBJECT SITE THIS GIVES
YOU A LITTLE BIT BETTER A
PICTURE OF WHAT WE'RE LOOKING
AT THE SURROUNDING LAND USES TO
THAT IF WE CANNOT GO RIGHT AWAY
TO THE NEXT ONE WHICH IS
OBVIOUSLY A CLOSER INVERSION.
THIS IS PARTICULARLY RELEVANT
WHEN YOU CONSIDER THE REQUEST
THAT WE'RE HERE BEFORE YOU
TONIGHT WHICH IS A VARIANCE
OF FIVE FEET FROM THE
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
THAT'S REQUIRED ON THE SOUTH
SIDE OF THIS SITE.
YOU CAN SEE OBVIOUSLY THIS WILL
PROBABLY COME BACK TO THIS AREA
AS THE DISCUSSION PROGRESSES.
BUT REALLY THE REASON FOR THAT
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER IS
THAT RESIDENTIAL USE TO THE
SOUTH NOW EVEN THOUGH THAT PARK
WAS OWNED OFFICE, IT DOES HAVE
A PRIMARILY A SINGLE
RESIDENTIAL RESIDENTIAL USE
UPON IT AND THAT USES WHAT
TRIGGERS THE CONFLICTING BUFFER
NOT SO MUCH THE ZONING ITSELF
BUT OBVIOUSLY AGAIN YOU CAN SEE
FROM THE AERIAL PHOTO THAT AREA
IS IS VERY SOLIDLY WOODED THERE
IS ACTUALLY A CREEK THAT COMES
OUT RIGHT INTO THAT AREA.
THE CREEK IS BURIED UNDERNEATH
PART OF THIS SUBJECT SITE AS
WELL.
THE SITE ADJACENT IT'S
UNDERGROUND AND BASICALLY WHY
THAT SUBJECT SITE ADJACENT HAS
THAT FUNKY ANGLE TO ITS
BUILDING.
NEXT SLIDE PLEASE OR THAT'S
RIGHT.
SORRY.
SO THIS IS THE PROPOSED PLAN.
SO ACTUALLY I GUESS CAN WE GO
ONE MORE FORWARD AND THEN I'LL
ASK YOU TO GO BACK SORRY YOU
THIS IS THE EXISTING THE
IMPROVEMENTS HERE YOU CAN SEE
ON THE SITE PARTICULARLY TO THE
SOUTH SIDE IF YOU LOOK THE
PARKING RIGHT NOW GOES RIGHT
AGAINST THE PROPERTY LINE SO
THERE IS NO BUFFER PROVIDED IN
THAT AREA AND YOU CAN SEE THAT
THE CUT THROUGH TO SUBJECT TO
THE SITE TO THE EAST THAT IS A
IT IS A CROSS ACCESS EASEMENT
THAT'S PROVIDED THROUGH THERE.
SO OBVIOUSLY BOTH SITES CAN USE
THAT FOR SOLID WASTE FIRE, JUST
GENERAL TRAFFIC.
SO THIS IS THE EXISTING SITE
NOW THEY WERE USING THIS
BUILDING AND THAT SOMEBODY
COULD MOVE INTO THIS BUILDING
TOMORROW, USE IT AS IS WITH
ABSOLUTELY NO CHANGES TO THE
SITE, NO CONFLICTING LAND
BUFFER.
HOWEVER, IF YOU DO GO TO THE
SITE THAT ONE SITE ACTUALLY
THEY ARE PROPOSING TO CONSTRUCT
AN ENTIRELY NEW BUILDING WHICH
DOES TRIGGER SITE REQUIREMENTS.
>> SO WITH THAT THE ENTIRE SITE
NEEDS TO BE BROUGHT UP TO OUR
SITE PLANNING STANDARDS WHICH
INCLUDES LANDSCAPING,
STORMWATER.
THERE'S CURRENTLY NO STORMWATER
ON THE SITE.
IT WAS BUILT BEFORE OUR SITE
PLAN STANDARDS SO LANDSCAPING
DOESN'T EXACTLY COMPLY EITHER
WHICH OBVIOUSLY BY THE
CONFLICTING LAND USE
OPERATE TO
THE SOUTH.
THEY'RE ALSO REQUIRED TO PUT IN
A SERIES OF LANDSCAPE
VIOLENCE
THROUGHOUT THE PARKING LOT AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO THIS PLAN SHOWS THAT THEY
ARE PROVIDING A TEN FOOT BUFFER
TO THE SOUTH SO THEY'RE MOVING
THE PARKING TEN FEET AWAY FROM
MY PROPERTY LINE.
THIS PLANT THIS PLAN DOES NOT
SHOW BECAUSE IT'S NOT A
LANDSCAPE PLAN BUT THEY WILL BE
ABLE TO PUT IN ALL THE REQUIRED
LANDSCAPING WITHIN THAT BUFFER
AND STILL PRESERVE THE CROSS
ACCESS EASEMENT TO THE TO THE
EAST.
THAT'S SOMETHING AGAIN THAT
WILL BE USED FOR FIRE AND
REALLY FOR SOLID WASTE ACCESS
AS WELL.
THE ADJACENT OWNER TO THE EAST
ALSO SUPPORTS THE USE OF THAT.
YOU CAN SEE THROUGH THESE KIND
THE BASS LINES.
I JUST GET MY POINT ON THAT
RIGHT.
BUT YEAH, THANK YOU, JOHN.
I KNOW THE EASEMENT AREA THAT
THAT'S THE WIDER GAS LINES IS
THE SUBJECT OF WHERE THAT CREEK
IS GOING THROUGH ACTUALLY AGAIN
IT'S UNDERGROUND AND IF IF WE
OVERLAY THE ADJACENT BUILDING
ON YOU CAN SEE THAT'S WHY THAT
BUILDING IS ANGLED LIKE THAT
BECAUSE AND THEN JUST DIRECTLY
OUT OF THE CREEK DOES COME OUT
AND IS EXPOSED FOR A LITTLE
WHILE.
SO I THINK NEXT SLIDE AND THEN
PROBABLY TO THAT WAS AND THEN
YEP.
THERE YOU GO.
SO AGAIN JUST GIVE ME A LITTLE
BIT MORE INFORMATION A LITTLE
BIT CLOSER IN HERE.
THE EXISTING DRAIN THEY HAVE
LABELED THERE THE RESIDENTIAL
THAT RESIDENTIAL IS OVER ONE
HUNDRED FEET AWAY AND AGAIN
IDEALLY THIS CONFLICTING LAND
USE BUFFERS OBVIOUSLY ARE IN
PLACE TO PROTECT THE THE VIEWS
AND BUFFER FROM ADJACENT
CONFLICTING LIKE MAYBE A HIGH
USE COMMERCIAL TRAFFIC
FACILITY.
BUT YOU CAN SEE HERE BECAUSE
OF THE LOCATION OF THAT CREEK,
ALL THAT EXISTING WOODLAND IN
THAT AREA, THAT AREA HAS NEVER
REALLY EVER GOING TO BE BUILT
ON.
YOU CAN'T YOU DON'T THERE'S A
CREEK THERE WE WOULDN'T EVEN
THOUGH THE EXISTING CREEK IS
COVERED ON THE RIGHT THERE, WE
WOULDN'T ALLOW THAT GOING
FORWARD.
SO THAT'S THAT GIVES YOU AN
IDEA OF THE RESTRAINTS OF THE
SITE.
SO AS WE GO FORWARD.
THAT'S RIGHT.
I THINK WE'VE GOT SOME PICTURES
JUST SHOWING BUILDING FROM THE
STREET AGAIN THE BUILDING WILL
BE REMOVED.
THANK YOU.
LOOKING TOWARDS THE BACK OF THE
SITE SO YOU CAN SEE DIRECTLY TO
WELL LOOKING STRAIGHT AHEAD AS
THE WOODED AREA NEXT PLEASE.
>> I THINK THERE WE GO.
AND SO WE'RE GOING TO GO INTO
THAT.
SO RIGHT NOW AGAIN THAT PARKING
IS DIRECTLY ON THAT PROPERTY
LINE.
SO I THINK IF YOU ALSO WANT THE
NEXT THING YOU HAVE YOU CAN SEE
TO THE PARKING WILL BE MOVED
BACK AND FEET AND THAT THERE IS
LOOKING EAST.
SO THAT IS THE ACCESS DRIVE.
SO THAT WILL BE ADJUSTED
SLIGHTLY AND THE PARKING WILL
BE ADJUSTED AS WELL AND I THINK
ONE MORE I THINK THAT WAS IT.
SO AGAIN, A COUPLE OF THINGS I
WANTED TO HIGHLIGHT THAT WITHIN
THE CONFLICTING OR SORRY WITHIN
THE LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER REQUIREMENTS THERE ARE
THREE ITEMS THAT ARE REQUIRED.
IT IS A WEIGHT OF 15 FEET.
THERE IS THE PLANTING'S WHICH
ARE A SERIES OF TREES AND
BUSHES, LOW LOW LYING
VEGETATION LIKE THAT AS WELL A
CONTINUOUS SCREEN.
SO THE VEGETATION, A BERM, A
WALL FENCE, SOMETHING OF THAT
NATURE IN ADDITION TO THE
VEGETATION THEY WILL BE ABLE TO
SATISFY TWO OF THOSE THREE AND
THEY WILL BE PROVIDING AGAIN 10
FEET OF THE REQUIRED 15 FOOT
WIDTH.
SO THE VARIANCE BEFORE YOU
TONIGHT IS ONLY FOUR FIVE FEET
OF THE WIDTH AND NOT FOR ANY
OF THE OTHER REQUIREMENTS THAT
BUFFER THE STANDARDS OR THE
STANDARD AGAIN REALLY FOR THIS
FOR A LANDSCAPE.
I KNOW THIS CAME UP PREVIOUSLY
HOW THE STANDARDS FOR ZONING
ARE BEING APPLIED LIGHTING THIS
LANDSCAPING DOES HAVE ITS OWN
STANDARD IN WITHIN THE UDC THAT
TO JUDGE WHETHER OR NOT IT
WARRANTS A VARIANCE REQUEST OR
NOT.
BASICALLY THE STANDARD IS WHEN
THE EVIDENCE SUPPORTS THAT A
PUBLIC BENEFIT TO BE GAINED OR
SECURED WILL EXIST WITH LESS
THAN THE REQUIRED LENGTH EVEN
FOR FREE.
SO BASICALLY IT'S UP TO THE
ZONING BOARD TO KIND OF DECIDE
WILL WHAT THEY'RE PROVIDING.
DOES THAT BASICALLY NEED THE
INTENT OF THE LANDSCAPING
ORDINANCE AND WE DID I DID
REVIEW THIS WITH OUR STAFF
LANDSCAPER VIEWER AS WELL AS
SHE DOES SUPPORT THE VARIOUS
REQUESTS SHE WOULD BE THE ONE
THAT IS EXAMINING THAT SECTION
OF CODE TO MAKE SURE IT
COMPLIES.
SHE DOES SUPPORT IT.
>> I DID HAVE ALSO A
COMMUNICATION WITH THE MANAGER
OR MANAGER BASICALLY OF THE
ASSOCIATION OF THE PROPERTY
DIRECTLY TO THE SOUTH WHICH IS
THE RESIDENTIAL USE AND THEY'RE
KIND OF ATTACHED CONDOS
APARTMENTS THERE.
>> WHILE HE DID SHE WOULDN'T GO
AS FAR AS WRITING A LETTER
OF SUPPORT.
SHE SAID THAT, YOU KNOW,
TALKING WITH THE RESIDENTS THEY
HAVE NO OBJECTIONS.
SO AND I HAVE NOT HEARD
ANYTHING FROM ANYBODY ELSE SO
THAT DOES CONCLUDE THE
PRESENTATION AND I'M DEFINITELY
AVAILABLE FOR ANY QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THAT QUESTIONS FROM JOHN.
>> SO MATT EYE IS MARLETTE'S
CREEK IN OPEN CREEK THERE
BEHIND THE RESIDENTIAL.
>> YEAH.
YEAH BEHIND CORRECT.
THIS PICTURE WE'RE LOOKING AT
RIGHT THERE YOU CAN ALMOST SEE
IT.
WELL, YOU CAN'T QUITE BUT
THERE'S LIKE A LITTLE DECK
WHERE IT GOES DOWN, RIGHT.
SO AT THE EDGE OF THIS PARKING
LOT, IF YOU COULD LOOK THROUGH
THOSE TREES YOU CAN SEE IT
BEING EXPOSED.
>> RIGHT.
OK, AND THEN IS THERE A WHOLE
SITE PLAN FOR THIS WHERE THE
OLD DENNIS WAS WHAT THEY'RE
DOING THERE?
>> IS THERE AN ENTIRE SITE
PLANNED?
YES.
SO THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
I'M NOT NOT THERE WILL BE SO
THE PETITIONER CHOSE TO GO
FORWARD BECAUSE IF THE VARIANCE
IS NOT GRANTED THEN THEY NEED
TO REDESIGN THEIR THEIR SITE
PLAN.
SO THIS WILL REQUIRE.
SO THAT'S A GREAT THING TO
POINT OUT.
THANK YOU.
AT THIS DEVELOPMENT I DID
MENTION IT.
IT DOES PRECISELY BUT THEY HAVE
NOT SUBMITTED FOR THE SITE PLAN
YET.
SO IF I IMAGINE IF THE VARIANCE
IS GRANTED THEY WILL GO FORWARD
AND SUBMIT THE SITE PLAN THAT
YOU SEE THAT WAS SUBMITTED
BEFORE YOU.
I HAVE REVIEWED IT IN DRAFT
FORM AND MET WITH OTHER
PETITIONER OR SORRY OTHER STAFF
MEMBERS REVIEWING BUT IT HASN'T
BEEN FORMALLY SUBMITTED BUT IT
WILL REQUIRE ONE.
SO AGAIN IF THIS WAS APPROVED
THEY WOULD GO FORWARD AND
SUBMIT THE PLAN.
>> I ASSUME IF IT'S NOT THEN
THEY'LL GO BACK TO THE DRAWING
BOARD.
SO I'M ASSUMING STORMWATER
RETENTION ON THE SITE PLAN BUT
IT STRIKES ME AS PREMATURE TO
BE COMING TO US AND ASKING FOR
THIS VARIANCE WITHOUT SOME SORT
OF A SITE PLAN THAT WE COULD
LOOK AT WHAT WE COULD IF YOU GO
BACK, JOHN, IF YOU CAN'T GO
BACK, THEY DO HAVE THE EXAMPLE
OF THE SITE THAT WILL BE I MEAN
THAT IS SO WHAT YOU SEE ONE
MORE I THINK WHEN THE THERE YOU
GO.
SO THAT IS THE SITE.
SO THIS IS THE SITE PLAN AND
AGAIN I'VE SEEN SHEETS OF THIS
VARIOUS WE HAVE WE HAVE
REVIEWED JUST REVIEWED THIS IS
KIND OF A PRE SUBMISSION STAGE
STAFF BUT YOU'RE CORRECT THEY
HAVE NOT SUBMITTED THIS
PERFORMANCE REVIEW.
BUT WE DO HAVE SOMEBODY I
BELIEVE FROM THE PETITIONERS
GROUP ON THE LINE AS WELL SO
THEY CAN CONFIRM BUT THIS IS
WHAT I INTEND TO BE SUBMITTED
GOING FORWARD AND AGAIN, AS IF
YOU WERE INCLINED TO SUPPORT
IT, YOU COULD REFERENCE THIS
PLAN AS WELL.
THE PLAN THAT WE BEFORE YOU
THAT YOU KNOW, TO MAKE SURE
THAT ESSENTIALLY THAT THAT IS
WHAT'S CONSTRUCTED.
>> SO SO LOOKING AT LOOKING AT
THIS, IT LOOKS TO ME LIKE
THEY'RE ASKING US FOR THIS
VARIANCE SO THEY CAN PUT SOME
PARKING PLACES, PARKING SPOTS
BACK THERE.
>> THAT'S WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE ON
THE SITE PLAN.
YES, THERE IS GOING BE PARKING
BACK THERE.
THAT'S CORRECT.
YES.
THEY'RE BASICALLY SHIFTING THAT
EXISTING.
>> SO THAT'S THE PURPOSE FOR US
TO GRANT THOSE VARIANCES SO
THAT THEY CAN HAVE SOME PARKING
SPACES BACK THERE IN THE
CURRENT CONFIGURATION.
OK, THANK YOU.
THERE'S EXISTING PARKING NOW I
UNDERSTAND THAT THERE'S A WHOLE
NEW SITE PLANNED AND NOW'S THE
TIME FOR US TO I ACTUALLY WALK
IN THIS RED BUT NATURE AREA
OCCASIONALLY AND THROUGHOUT
PITTSFIELD VILLAGE ALTHOUGH I'M
NOT FAMILIAR WITH AND I SHOULD
HAVE WALKED THIS SITE EARLIER
TODAY AND TAKEN A CLOSE LOOK AT
THE BACK LOT LINE THERE.
I USED TO EAT DENNY'S
OCCASIONALLY ALTHOUGH THE
FLEETWOOD IS A MUCH BETTER
PLACE TO GO AT TWO A.M. AND
DENNIS WAS SO BUT ANYWAY THAT I
JUST WANTED GET THAT AND I SEE
THE PARKING SPACES.
I SEE WHAT THEY'RE TRYING TO DO
BUT THEY'RE ASKING US TO GIVE
UP SCREENING FOR PARKING MIKE.
SO IF THIS WERE PRAISING THIS
CORRECTLY, IF THIS WERE NOT
GRANTED I MEET THE MINIMUM
PARKING PRETTY EASILY BUT GLAD
YEAH.
>> THEY WOULD MEET THEM.
THERE IS NO REQUIRED PARKING SO
OK YEAH THEY WOULD NEED THE
REQUIRED TARGET.
>> OK THANK YOU.
OTHER QUESTIONS FOR MATT OR
JOHN DENHA IN MY WHOLE TO CBA
MEETINGS THIS FIRST TIME I'VE
SEEN THIS COME WITH THE STAFF
RECOMMENDATION FROM TWO
DIFFERENT DEPARTMENTS I'M JUST
WONDERING WHAT KIND OF SIGNAL
IT SHOULD BE TO US.
>> OH I DON'T KNOW THAT WE
DON'T NECESSARILY LIKE IT TO BE
ANY KIND OF STRONGER
ENDORSEMENT BUT
OTHER QUESTIONS
FOR STEPH.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, MATT.
IF THE PETITIONER IS HERE OR
YES IS HERE, PLEASE COME
FORWARD.
>> STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD.
YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
HI, MY NAME IS GEORGE AND I'M A
RETAIL MANAGEMENT.
WE ARE THE OWNERSHIP GROUP
OF THIS THIS PROPERTY BASED OUT
OF BINGHAM FARMS, MICHIGAN.
I THINK MAJIDA GREAT JOB
PRESENTING THE YOU KNOW, OUR
PROPOSED PLAN ALONG WITH OUR
VARIANCE REQUEST ALONG HERE
WITH ME I HAVE LESLIE ACARDO
WITH A GROUP WHO IS THE FIRM
RESPONSIBLE FOR OUR CIVIL
ENGINEERING DESIGN.
I THINK MATT DID A GREAT JOB
EXPLAINING WHAT WE'RE YOU
PROPOSING FOR THE SITE AND I'M
HERE TO FIELD ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU MAY HAVE RIGHT
QUESTIONS MIKE.
SO HOW MANY EXTRA PARKING SPOTS
WILL THIS GIVE?
>> WE WERE A GRANT FOR VARIOUS
I BELIEVE IT'S A TEN SPACES SO
THEY'RE PROBABLY OK.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU PAT.
YES, MR. CHAPMAN.
SO I WAS ADMIRING DAVE'S
POINTED QUESTIONS AND YEAH, I
GUESS I HAVE TWO
QUESTIONS FOR
YOU.
ONE, DO YOU AGREE THAT THE
PURPOSE OF THE VARIANCE IS DO A
LOT MORE PARKING SPACES?
>> I AGREE THAT OUR YOU KNOW,
OUR INTENT IS TO TO PARK THOSE
TEN SPACES THERE BUT ALSO TO TO
HELP AND KEEP THE CROSS ACCESS
INTACT WHILE ALSO IMPROVING THE
EXISTING CONDITIONS.
WELL, LET ME PASS WHAT YOU
SAID.
MY QUESTION SIMPLY WAS ARE YOU
ASKING FOR THE VARIANCE SO YOU
CAN HAVE MORE PARKING SPACES,
YES OR NO?
YES.
OK, THE STAFF REPORT SAYS THAT
THE NEW PLAN QUOTE OFFERS A
SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENT OVER
EXISTING CONDITIONS.
WOULD YOU JUSTIFY THAT PHRASE
PLEASE?
>> SURE.
ABSOLUTELY BECAUSE WELL, THE
QUESTION IS ADDRESSED TO THE
APPLICANT.
SORRY.
OK, YEAH, I WOULD SAY THAT'S
ACCURATE.
HOW HAS MENTIONED IN THAT
PRESENTATION?
YOU KNOW THE CURRENT STANDARDS
WERE NOT IN PLACE WHEN THE
DENNIS' WAS FIRST DEVELOPED SO
WE'RE BRINGING THE STORMWATER
REQUIREMENTS COMPLIANT ALONG
WITH LANDSCAPING AND THOSE ARE
THE TWO BIG, BIG ITEMS BUT YOU
WOULD HAVE TO DO THE STORMWATER
ANYWAY TO BE COMPLIANT.
WHAT YOU REALLY ARE ASKING IS
DO SOME TREES SO YOU CAN PARK
MORE CARS RIGHT.
WE'RE ACTUALLY PULLING THE
PARKING THE ASPHALT BACK AWAY
FROM THE PROPERTY LINE BECAUSE
CURRENTLY IT'S IT'S I BELIEVE
ABOUT A FOOT AND A HALF OFF THE
PROPERTY LINE.
>> OH, SO I GUESS I'M MORE
CONFUSED BUT YOU WERE SAYING
THAT YOU WANTED THE VARIANCE TO
PROVIDE MORE PARKING SPACES BUT
YOU'RE PULLING THE PARKING LOT
BACK FROM THE TREES OR THE
CREEK.
>> THE EXISTING SITE IS NOT
COMPLIANT WITH TODAY'S CODE .
SO IF WE WERE TO GO OUT AND
REDEVELOP ANOTHER BREAKFAST
USER SIMILAR TO DENNY'S IN THE
SPACE, THE SITE WOULD NOT MEET
TODAY'S STANDARDS.
WHAT WOULD BE GRANDFATHERED IN?
>> NO, I UNDERSTAND THAT, SIR.
I GUESS I'M HEARING TWO
DIFFERENT THINGS.
ONE IS YOU JUST SAID THAT
YOU'RE GOING DO YOU WANT THE
VARIANCE TO PROVIDE MORE
PARKING PLACES BUT YOU ALSO
JUST SAID THAT YOU'RE MOVING
THE PARKING LOT AWAY FROM THE
CREEK.
>> BOTH SEEM INCONSISTENT TO ME
.
I FEEL AS IF BOTH STATEMENTS
YOU JUST PROVIDED ARE ACCURATE.
YEAH, ARE YOU SHRINKING THE
PARKING LOT SO YEAH.
>> YEAH.
>> HOW CAN YOU SHRINK A PARKING
LOT AND PROVIDE MORE PARKING
SPACES AND CARS ARE GETTING
SMALLER MAYBE.
I DON'T THINK SO.
>> I THINK OUR INTENT IS TO TO
KEEP THE PARKING LOT MORE AWAY
FROM THE PROPERTY LINE.
I'M NOT SURE I WANT VOTERS
GETTING THE TWO PART QUESTION.
I FEEL LIKE THE ANSWER IS THERE
WELL IT SEEMS OBVIOUS TO YOU IS
INCONSISTENT TO ME.
YOU CAN HAVE A SMALLER PARKING
AREA BUT PROVIDE MORE PARKING
SPACES.
I SUBMIT TO YOU, SIR, THAT'S
INCONSISTENT.
I THINK WE CAN CLARIFY OK, OK.
DO YOU WANT TO SHOW THE PICTURE
OF THE BACK OF THE PARKING LOT
SO IT IS A SHRINKAGE OF THE
PARKING LOT BUT IT'S NOT THE
FULL 15 FEET.
SO THIS BACK ROW IS NOW GOING
TO BECOME LANDSCAPED THAT WE'RE
LOOKING ON IN THE SCREEN SO
WE'LL LOSE THAT.
BUT IF WE HAVE THEM COME THE
FULL FIFTEEN FEET INSTEAD
OF JUST THAT TEN FEET THEN THEY
WOULD LOSE EVEN MORE PARKING.
SO IT'S NOT THAT THEY'RE
THEY'RE NOT GAINING PARKING
FROM WHAT EXISTS TODAY.
THEY'RE HAVING LESS SHRINKAGE
THAN WHAT THE ORDINANCE
REQUIRES.
WELL, THAT'S THE SECOND TIME
YOU WOULD LIKE ME THEN TO MY MY
PLEASURE.
AND JUST TO CLARIFY TOO WE ARE
WE ARE ABLE TO PROVIDE ALL THE
LANDSCAPING WE WOULD HAVE TO IF
WE HAD FIFTEEN FEET IN THE SAME
TEN FEET.
SO WE'RE STILL PROVIDING ALL
THE LANDSCAPE THAT'S REQUIRED
IN THAT BUFFER AREA.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER WHILE WE'VE AT THE
SITE PLAN IF YOU COULD MAYBE GO
BACK TO IT, WHERE ARE YOU
PUTTING THIS STORMWATER
RETENTION?
HOW CAN I APPROACH IT?
I'M FINE WITH IT.
>> I'M FULLY VACCINATED AND SO
IT'S LIKE IT'S NEAR THE LATER
BUT THIS IS THE BEST THIS ABOUT
THIS IS THIS AREA HERE WHERE
THE BUILDING IS, RIGHT?
>> WELL, THAT'S THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE BUILDING.
YEAH, I'M UPSET BECAUSE OF THE
DRAIN AND ALL THE
INFRASTRUCTURE ASSOCIATED WITH
THAT WE WOULD HAVE TO PUT THE
UNDERGROUND DETENTION AREA IN
FRONT OF THE PARKING LOT AS YOU
ENTER THE SITE I HAVE THE
QUESTIONS RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE'S ANYONE HERE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK,
PLEASE COME FORWARD NOW PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD
YOU'LL HAVE THREE MINUTES NERKA
SALDAA I AM THE RESIDENT THAT
IS THE CLOSEST TO THAT PARKING
LOT.
IT IS LESS THAN ONE HUNDRED
FEET.
THE GENTLEMAN ON THE ZO MEETING
STATED THE DISTANCE BETWEEN THE
BEDROOM THAT'S CLOSEST TO THE
PARKING LOT IS THE DISTANCE
BETWEEN THIS COLUMN AND THAT
VERY WELL YOU COULD LOOK AND
YOU POINTED IF YOU CAN PUT A
BIGGER ONE THE PICTURE THAT HAS
THE IT'S BLOWN UP THIS IS THE
LITTLE ONE BUT THERE'S ANOTHER
PICTURE THERE YOU CAN SEE MY MY
OUR BEDROOMS ARE THAT CORNER
BUILDING THAT PROTRUDES FROM
THE BUILDING THAT IS WHAT'S THE
CLOSEST TO THAT PARKING LOT.
WE HAVE A LOT OF PROBLEMS WHEN
VENICE WAS THERE WITH NOISE YOU
HAVE NO IDEA HOW MUCH NOISE
THERE IS AT NIGHT WITH VEHICLES
COMING IN COMING OUT.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT CHICK
FIL A OPENS FROM SIX THIRTY IN
THE MORNING TO 10:00 P.M. OK,
THERE IS GOING TO BE A LOT
OF NOISE, A LOT OF CARS PARKING
IN AND OUT.
THE REASON THAT THEY NEED THOSE
TEN PARKING SLOTS BACK THERE IS
BECAUSE THEY REMOVED THE
PARKING THAT ACCESS TO THE EAST
SIDE OF THAT LOT IF YOU SEE
THERE ARE LIKE EIGHT PARKING
LOT SPOTS THERE, THEY REMOVE
THOSE TO ALLOW TO WAIT TRAFFIC.
IF YOU LOOK AT THEIR SITE PLAN
TO WAY TRAFFIC IN THE ENTIRE A
LOT.
SO THERE'S TWO WAY FLOW
OF TRAFFIC AROUND THEIR NEW
STRUCTURE SO THEY REMOVE THOSE
AND THEY'RE ASKING US TO GIVE
UP FIVE FEET OF PROTECTION
AGAINST NOISE, DIRT, DUST,
CARBON DIOXIDE FROM AMOUNT
OF VEHICLES THAT VISIT A CHICK
FIL A WHICH ARE QUITE A FIELD
SO THAT THEY COULD BUILD TEN
PARKING SPOTS.
ALSO IF YOU LOOK AT THE
WASHTENAW DRIVE THE STREET
RIGHT IN FRONT BUILDING THERE
ARE PARKING SPOTS ACROSS THE
STREET AS WELL.
SO THERE'S PLENTY OF PARKING IS
SO MY REQUEST IS THAT YOU DO
NOT GRANT THIS VARIANCE BECAUSE
WE NEED THOSE FIFTEEN FEET TO
PROTECT OURSELVES FROM THE
INCREASED NOISE, THE INCREASED
DIRT.
MY CONCERN MR. DE BARTEE HAS
SPOKEN ABOUT THAT CREEK.
I LIVE THERE.
I'M A NATURALIST.
I'M A MURDER.
OK, YOU HAVE NO IDEA HOW MUCH
TRASH PLANTS IN THE CREEK
COMING FROM THE BUILDING
ALREADY SECONDS ON THE EAST
SIDE AND THE WEST SIDE WHEN
THAT IS WAS THERE THERE WERE A
LOT OF DIRT AND GARBAGE IN THE
CREEK AS WELL.
SO WE NEED THAT BUFFER.
SO I'M GOING TO LET THE OTHER
RESIDENTS SPEAK.
>> THANK YOU.
>> I JONATHA BEZERRA I'M ALSO A
PROPERTY OWNER IN THE BUILDING
THAT'S DIRECTLY ADJACENT TO THE
PROPOSED STRUCTURE SO I DON'T
HAVE AS MUCH TO SAY BUT
BASICALLY JUST KIND TO
REITERATE EXACTLY WHAT MY
NEIGHBOR WAS SAYING AS WELL
THAT THERE IS A LOT OF NOISE
AND THAT COMES FROM THAT
PROPERTY THERE AND HAVING AN
ADDITIONAL BUFFER IS GOING TO
EASE BOTH THE NORDEA WHO'S
PROPERTY IS DIRECTLY ADJACENT
TO IT BUT ALSO THE OWNER THAT'S
UNDERNEATH AS WELL AND PROVIDE
ADDITIONAL ADDITIONAL BUFFER SO
THAT WE CAN HAVE PEACE AS WE'RE
DOING THAT AND THE OTHER THING
THAT NORCO DID BRING UP IS THE
TRASH AND LIVING RIGHT NEXT TO
THAT CREEK.
THAT CREEK IS ALWAYS FULL
OF TRASH AND HAVING AN
ADDITIONAL BUFFER.
IT'S JUST GOING TO PROVIDE
BETTER ACCESS SO WE'RE NOT
HAVING THAT TRASH ENTERING OUR
WATERWAYS.
AND SO THOSE ARE PROBABLY THE
TWO MAJOR CONCERNS THAT I HAVE
IS THE NOISE AS WELL AS
ADDITIONAL LITTER THAT COULD BE
PRODUCED BY NOT HAVING A LARGER
BUFFER LIKE THANK YOU.
>> YES.
A QUESTION FOR YOU, SIR.
>> CAN YOU SEE THE TRASH IN THE
CREEK FROM YOUR PLACE?
YES.
I CAN SHOW YOU FROM TWO DAYS
AGO.
>> THAT'S OK.
THANK YOU.
HAVE QUESTIONS.
OK, I THINK I AM RICHMONDERS TO
MY WIFE NARIKA AND THIS IS MY
NAME AND IT'S NOT MY NATIVE
LANGUAGE SO IF YOU'RE ON THE
PHONE SOMETHING LIKE THIS AND I
WILL TRY TO ANSWER GO AHEAD
AGAIN.
AH LET ME START.
WE BOUGHT THIS CONDO SEVENTEEN
YEARS AGO SO WE'RE TRYING TO
TELL YOU THAT I HAVE THIS
PREENS WITNESSED LIVING IN THIS
PLACE SEVENTEEN YEARS AND BACK
THEN PERMANENT RESIDENT I USED
TO BE THERE HE HAS MORE TRAFFIC
BUT WE THROUGH TIME THE SALES
WENT DOWN AND THEN CAME
COVID-19 AND THAT WAS IT.
NOW
THIS IS ONE MYSTERIANS THE
PROPERTY IN THE IN THE BACK THE
PROPERTY THAT YOU SEE THOSE
PARKING LOT THEY'RE NOT WITH
THE NEW REGULATION WITH BOFUR
WE KNOW THAT NOW.
BUT WHAT HAPPENS MANY TIMES
DURING THE WEEKENDS WHEN THERE
IS I KNOW OPEN TWENTY FOUR
HOURS BEFORE THIS CLOSE AT TEN
SOMETHING WEEKENDS SOME PEOPLE
THERE WILL GO THERE THEY EAT
AND THEN THEY WILL GO TO THE
BACK OF THE OF THE PARK IN THE
PARK AND IN THE BACK OF THE
PROPERTY LINE AT MATRICIDE AND
THEN THEY START CHATTING SOME
MAYBE THEY WERE FIRING AND THEY
STARTED LAUGHING GETTING
SOMETHING FIGHT AND WE DON'T
WANT TO WE HAVE TO CALL THE
POLICE.
SO I GUESS IT DOES BRING A
PROBLEM.
THERE IS A PARKING LOT IN THE
BACK OF THAT PROPERTY SITE NOW
FOR SOME REASON, UH, THIS NEW
REGULATION WITH THIS BALFA YOU
SEE THIS PROGRAM IN THE US IS
THAT THIS IS THREE COMMERCIAL
AND WE ARE JOSA MULTIFAMILY AND
WE ARE VERY CLOSE.
SO PROBABLY MAKES A LOT
OF SENSE WHY THEY DID THIS 15
FOOT BUFFER NOW IS SOMETHING NO
ONE WILL SPEAK FOR THE AMALEK
RIG ONLY THIRTY SECONDS ONLY WE
WILL SPEAK FOR THE MALEKI OK IT
DOESN'T HAVE LIFE.
WE ARE THE ONE THAT SHOULD TAKE
CARE AND THAT WILL BE A PROBLEM
BECAUSE WHEN A CUSTOMER FROM
PILLED GO TO IT THEY'RE
PROBABLY THEY WILL TAKE THEIR
DRINKS IF ARE THEY PARK IN THE
BACK AND SOMETHING NOT ALWAYS
THEY THROW AWAY THE THE CUP
THAT'S A REALITY I'M THERE IS A
LOT OF OVER THERE AND THE CREEK
OOPS THE GARBAGE GOES AWAY.
THERE I GO I'M LAUGHING WHICH
IS VERY IMPORTANT FOR ME THE
MR. MURPHY AND NICOLE WHICH
REPRESENT US THAT'S NOT TRUE
THAT WE AGREE WITH THIS
PROPOSED PLAN TO BRING DOWN
FROM 15 TO 10.
I WANT TO MAKE THAT VERY CLEAR
.
>> SO I HOPE THAT YOU HEAR WHAT
I SAID BECAUSE IT'S VERY
IMPORTANT FOR ME TO BE HERE
THIS LATE NIGHT BECAUSE WE
DISAGREE WITH THAT.
>> IS THERE ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION?
IS THERE ANYONE IF THERE'S
ANYONE ACCESSING THE MEETING
REMOTELY, PLEASE OUR TO RAISE
YOUR HAND OR USE THE RAISED
HAND FUNCTION ON THE WEBLINK NO
UNIFORM.
>> THERE ARE NO MORE CALLERS.
THANK YOU.
WITH THAT SAID, THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED.
I DO NOT BELIEVE WE RECEIVED
ANY LETTERS OF COMMUNICATION ON
THIS EITHER SUPPORTING OR
OBJECTING TO IT.
SO WE'RE IN DISCUSSION THAT
WELL THIS IS ALWAYS A DIFFICULT
ONE.
IT COMES UNDER IS LAWYERS LEARN
IN LAW SCHOOL THE THE ISSUE
OF BORDER PROPERTY IN ANN ARBOR
WE'VE SEEN IT OVER THE DECADES
I'VE BEEN HERE WHEN PEOPLE MOVE
CLOSE TO THE AIRPORT AND THEN
THEY COMPLAIN ABOUT PLANES
LANDING.
SO ONE PART OF ME IS
SYMPATHETIC THE PEOPLE HAVE
ENJOYED BECAUSE DENNIS
COLLAPSED ARE WONDERFUL.
I HATE US NO RESTAURANT
OPERATING THERE AND THEY'VE GOT
THE WONDERFUL QUIET AND THERE'S
NO TRASH IN THE CREEK.
I UNDERSTAND THAT.
BUT THESE PROPERTIES HAVE THE
ISSUE OF BEING WATER
PROPERTIES.
THAT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT CAN
REALLY BE SOLVED AND I
UNDERSTAND CORRECTLY WHY THEY
WOULD BE UPSET BUT I DON'T KNOW
THAT IN MY MIND THAT THAT'S
ENOUGH TO FOR ME TO VOTE
AGAINST THE VARIANCE.
I WOULD ALSO NOTE THAT THE
NOISE AND THE YELLING AND THE
PARTYING AND PEOPLE LEAVING
THEIR TRASH AROUND YOU KNOW,
WHETHER THERE ARE A FEW MORE
TREES ISN'T GOING TO OBVIATE
THOSE PROBLEMS, THEY'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO DEAL WITH IT BY
NATURE OF BEING A BORDER
PROPERTY.
SO I FEEL FOR THE FOLKS BUT IN
ANY SUBDIVISION YOU HAVE MY
SUBDIVISION THERE THERE ARE
HOUSES THAT BORDER PLYMOUTH
ROAD AND THEY KNEW IT WHEN THEY
MOVED THERE AND THOSE HOUSES
ARE NOISY AND I WOULD NOT WANT
ONE BUT THEY SORT OF DID IT
WITH EYES OPEN SO TO SPEAK.
SO I'M A LITTLE BIT ON THE
FENCE ABOUT THIS BUT I THINK
I'M PROBABLY GOING TO VOTE IN
FAVOR OF THE VARIANCE DESPITE
THE VERY HEARTFELT AND
UNDERSTANDABLE COMMENTS BY THE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE BOUGHT OUR
PROPERTY.
I LIKEN IT TO THE PEOPLE WHO
MOVE CLOSE TO AN AIRPORT, YOU
KNOW, WHAT DID YOU EXPECT?
THANK GRACE.
I GUESS I'M JUST HAVING A HARD
TIME UNDERSTANDING WHAT THE THE
STANDARD OF PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY WOULD REALLY BE WITH
THIS PROPERTY IF THEY'RE MOVING
THE PARKING LOT BACK ALREADY.
I DON'T SEE WHAT THE DIFFICULTY
IS IN MOVING IT TO MEET THE
FIFTEEN FEET AND I JUST HAVE A
HARD TIME GETTING PAST THAT
STANDARD SO I'M INCLINED TO
VOTE NO ON THIS UNLESS SOMEONE
CONVINCES ME OTHERWISE.
DAVE, I A COUPLE OF THINGS I
WANT TO RESPOND DIRECTLY TO MY
COLLEAGUE TODD'S COMMENTS IN
THIS CASE I FEEL LIKE THE NEW
PROPERTY DEVELOPER WHO'S BOUGHT
US SPACE AND PUTTING IN A WHOLE
NEW SITE PLAN WHO HAS MOVED IN
TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND KNOWS
THAT THE CITY HAS REQUIREMENTS
FOR SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
SO THEY'RE THE NEW KIDS ON THE
BLOCK.
THEY'RE THE ONES THAT KNEW THAT
THERE WAS A RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT BEHIND AND
APPARENTLY THEY MAY HAVE SPOKEN
WITH THE MANAGEMENT BUT NOT THE
RESIDENTS.
THIS IS THE DEFINITIVE
SITUATION FOR WHY WE HAVE
SCREENING REQUIREMENTS BETWEEN
RESIDENTIAL AND NON RESIDENTIAL
USERS AND IT'S CLEAR THAT A
ADDITIONAL SCREENING CAN HELP
TO MEDIATE THOSE ISSUES THAT
MIGHT ARISE OR SOUND YOU KNOW,
SOUNDS SITE, WHATEVER.
BUT THIS IS WHY WE HAVE THE
SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
WE DO HAVE THEM I'M NOT GOING
TO VOTE FOR VARIANCE IN THIS
CASE LIKE YEAH I'M A HARD NO ON
THIS IN THE SENSE OF I'M NOT
SURE WHAT THE PUBLIC BENEFIT
IS.
THERE'S PLENTY OF PARKING AT
THIS SITE THESE ADDITIONAL
SPOTS AREN'T I MEAN THIS IS NOT
A MALL.
IT'S GOING TO BE A RESTAURANT
AND IT'S ACCESSIBLE BY THE BUS
LINE TOO.
SO YEAH, I'M NOT SEEING THE
PUBLIC BENEFIT.
I'M I'M A HARD ON THIS.
I HAVE A QUESTION JUST KIND
OF OUT OF CURIOSITY AND MAYBE
MAYBE YOU KNOW, JOHN OR MAYBE
NOT THE PARKING THAT'S ON THE
SERVICE DRIVE THAT'S LIKE
DIRECTLY NORTH OF THE BUILDING.
I'M ASSUMING THAT ALL OF THESE
PARCELS HAVE THE ABILITY TO
PARK THERE.
IS THAT TRUE DUDE IS THERE BUT
CAN PEOPLE THAT COME TO CHICK
FIL A PARK ACROSS THE SERVICE
DRIVE AND WALK OVER JUST LIKE
PEOPLE ASON OK?
YES THAT'S LURKING IN THE FRONT
AND THAT THAT'S NOT SERVICE.
>> RIGHT OK THANK YOU JULIE.
I'M GOING TO VOTE NO ON THIS
BUT I KIND OF JUST WANT TO ADD
BECAUSE WE'VE HAD THIS 15 FOOT
BUFFER COME UP BEFORE WHEN IT'S
BEEN KIND OF YOU KNOW, WITHIN A
MILE OF HERE I FORGET IT WAS
AROUND PACARD OR SOMETHING AND
IT DIDN'T MAKE ANY SENSE TO ME
BECAUSE IT SEEMED LIKE A SOLID
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT THIS FEELS LIKE A VERY GOOD
EXAMPLE OF WHY WE HAVE THAT 15
FOOT BUFFER AND I DON'T THINK
IT'S A GREAT HARDSHIP AS FAR AS
I HEARD TO GO THE EXTRA FIVE
FEET.
I DO APPRECIATE THAT THEY SAID
WELL, TEN FEET EASIER DOES THE
DEAD BUT I THINK THEY SHOULD DO
THE FULL FIFTEEN.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION WE READY
FOR A MOTION?
I'M READY ANY TIME FOR THIS ONE
I GUESS UNLESS SOMEONE HAS A
QUESTION WHERE IN DISCUSSION
AND DOES ANYONE HAVE A QUESTION
OR WANT TO HEAR FROM THE
APPLICANT NOT ON THE QUESTION
OF ONE WE'RE COMING.
YES.
I THINK WHAT OTHERS HAVE SAID
THE BUFFER EXISTS FOR A REASON
AND I THINK WE HAVE TO BE
REALLY CAREFUL NOT TO PUT THE
ONUS ON PEOPLE THAT MIGHT LIVE
NEXT TO A PROPERTY THAT THEY
SHOULD HAVE KNOWN THAT IT'S
GOING TO BE NOISY BECAUSE I
THINK WE HAVE SOME OF THESE
REGULATIONS IN PLACE FOR A
REASON PEOPLE DON'T ALWAYS HAVE
MAXIMUM CHOICE ON WHERE THEY
LIVE.
SO I JUST WANT TO THAT I WON'T
BE SUPPORTING THIS IDEA OF THE
QUESTION OF THE APPLICANT.
YEAH, I HAVE A QUESTION OF THE
APPLICANT EXCUSE ME YET THERE'S
A QUESTION SO YOU CAN COME BACK
UP.
SO HAS I BEEN A PARKING STUDY
AND TO EVALUATE THE USAGE
OF PARKING AND TAKING ADVANTAGE
OF THE PARKING ALONG WASHTENAW
AVENUE NO PARKING PLACE PARTLY
BECAUSE THE ORDINANCE DOESN'T
HAVE YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
YEAH, WE ARE PROVIDING THE SAME
NUMBER OF PARKING SPOTS THAT
WERE THERE PREVIOUSLY DENNY'S
SO THERE'S NOT ANY THING
SPECIFIC TO THAT.
BUT ONE OF THE BIG REASONS FOR
KEEPING THAT PARKING WAS TO
KEEP AT CROSS ACCESS.
SO IN THE EVENT THAT WE DO NOT
GET APPROVED WILL PROBABLY
CLOSE OFF THAT CROSS ACCESS
WHICH WAS SOMETHING THAT THE
THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT HAD
SUPPORTED KEEPING BUT WE'RE NOT
REQUIRED TO SO WE'LL PROBABLY
CLOSE OFF THAT CROSS ACCESS IN
THE EVENT THAT WE'RE NOT
APPROVED TONIGHT AND THAT CROSS
ACCESS.
>> CAN SOMEONE JUST POINT THAT
OUT TO ME?
SORRY IT'S ONE SO OK I'LL RIGHT
THERE OK I THINK THERE WAS A
PHOTO I AND BASED ON THE CHICK
FIL A IN TERMS OF THE HOW MANY
JUST COME IN GRAB AND GO VERSUS
GRAB GRAB THEIR MEAL AND STAY I
THERE MUST HAVE BEEN SOME KIND
OF LIKE HOW LONG WHAT'S THAT
FLOW LOOKED LIKE.
RIGHT SO BECAUSE THIS ISN'T A
DRIVE THRU RESTAURANT IT'S IT'S
A WALK UP ONLY WE DON'T HAVE A
TON OF DATA ON THAT BECAUSE
IT'S IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE
DON'T HAVE A LOT OF .
SO UNLESS I KNOW JUST IN WORK
FROM CHICK FIL A'S ON THE PHONE
SO UNLESS HE HAS SOMETHING MORE
TO ADD I DON'T HAVE ANY MORE
DATA BASED ON THAT.
I MEAN A LOT OF THE TRAFFIC IS
OF COURSE DOOR DASH AND
DELIVERY SERVICES LIKE THAT.
>> BUT WE I MEAN WE DO HAVE A
DINING ROOM THAT PEOPLE WILL BE
SITTING DOWN AND I THINK IT'S
PROBABLY ALSO IMPORTANT TO TO
NOTE THAT RIGHT NOW WE'RE
CONDUCTING A TRAFFIC STUDY.
WE'VE HAD CONVERSATIONS WITH
MATTHEW AND CYRUS I BELIEVE WAS
IN THE ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
AND A PART OF THAT IS ALSO THE
PARKING.
SO I JUST WANTED I THINK THAT'S
IMPORTANT FOR YOU GUYS TO
UNDERSTAND AND I DON'T KNOW IF
I WAS AS CLEAR ABOUT IT EARLIER
BUT WE DEFINITELY ARE PULLING
IT AWAY RIGHT FROM THE BACK.
YEAH, YEAH.
OK, I'M NOT TRYING TO MAKE IT
WORSE THAN IT ALREADY IS
UNDERSTOOD.
>> THANK YOU.
MOTION TO GET MADAM CHAIR THE
OWNER IS ON THE LINE AND DID
JUST ON MUTE IF YOU'D LIKE TO
HEAR FROM HIM AND I'M SORRY
KELLY DEPUTY PLANNING MANAGER I
JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER EICHMANNS
COMMENT OUR QUESTION EARLIER
ABOUT WEIGHT THAT SHOULD BE
PLACED ON STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS
WAS ANSWERED REALLY YOU'RE AN
INDEPENDENT BODY SO YOU CAN
WEIGHT IT HOWEVER YOU WANT.
BUT SEVERAL TIMES DURING THE
MEETING THERE'S BEEN QUESTIONS
ABOUT STAFF INTERPRETATIONS.
FOR EXAMPLE WITH THE THIRTY
FOOT EASEMENT.
AND SO I WOULD JUST SAY I THINK
PROBABLY WHAT YOU HOW YOU THINK
YOU SHOULD WAIT IT IS HOW YOU
SHOULD WEIGHT IT.
IT'S PERSONAL TO YOU.
THESE ARE RECOMMENDATIONS FROM
PEOPLE WHO LOOK AT SITE PLANS
ALL THE TIME AND ARE LOOKING AT
SITES IN THE CITY ALL THE TIME
AND TRYING TO MEET THE CITY'S
GOALS SO YOU DON'T HAVE TO WAIT
IT DIFFERENTLY.
BUT IF YOU LIKE TO IT'S THERE
FOR YOUR TO HELP YOU WITH YOUR
DECISION.
>> COULD I ASK AN ADDITIONAL
QUESTION OF STAFF OR IS IT TOO
LATE?
YES.
NO YOU CAN JUST ONE DENHA DID
YOU WANT TO HAVE A QUESTION?
I KNOW THE CHICK FIL A
REPRESENTATIVE WAS ONLINE.
I DIDN'T KNOW IF YOU WANTED TO
ASK A QUESTION OF THEM.
>> IT'S UP TO YOU.
I'M GOOD.
OK, THANK YOU FOR ASKING.
>> WHY WAS THE CROSS ACCESS
IMPORTANT?
WHAT PURPOSE DOES IT SERVE?
I KNOW THAT INITIAL DISCUSSIONS
AGAIN VERY INITIALLY ON WHEN I
WAS EXPLORING WHETHER TO REVIEW
THE EXISTING BUILDING OR DO ANY
BUILDING PART OF THE
DISCUSSIONS WERE FOR YOUR
ACCESS AS WELL.
ALWAYS ACCESS THIS ALLOW FOR
SOLID WASTE BECAUSE IT ALLOWS
CROSS ACCESS TO THAT ELIMINATES
A LOT OF BACKING UP ON THE SITE
AND THE ADJACENT SITE.
THEY CAN PULL THROUGH THE SITES
AND SERVICE DUMPSTER'S THERE'LL
BE A NEW DUMPSTER LOCATION ON
THE CHIPPEWA SITE SO AS WELL AS
FIRAXIS PLAYER ALWAYS ACCESS
BUT AGAIN IT'S NOT A REQUIRED
FOR FIRE BUT THEY DEFINITELY
PREFER IT SO THAT'S REALLY WHY
WE WANT IT AS WELL AS FOR STAFF
TO GET A GENERAL TRAFFIC
CIRCULATION WE PREFER IT JUST
FOR VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
PATTERNS.
AGAIN YOU GET MORE YOU KNOW
MORE AND MORE PEOPLE DISPERSING
AT TRAFFIC TO THE WASHED-OUT
SERVICE DRIVE.
MATT, DO YOU KNOW IF THE CROSS
ACCESS NOW BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY IT
EXISTS IS IT RECORDED IN AN
EASEMENT OR IS IT JUST KIND
OF THERE AND HAS BEEN
FUNCTIONING FOREVER THAT WAY
YOU SEE A MOVIE RIGHT NOW
ACTUALLY I DON'T HAVE THE ALL
PULLED UP MIGHT BE ABLE TO
IDENTIFY THAT BUT THAT WILL BE
ONE OF THE I YOU KNOW I DON'T
KNOW IF YOU HAD AN ANSWER THAT
IF YOU LIKE.
YEAH.
JUST IT'S NOT RECORDED IT'S NOT
ON TITLE.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT'S
BEEN I GUESS MORE PRESCRIPTIVE
OR IN PLACE I GUESS DATING BACK
FORTY YEARS.
THANK YOU.
RIGHT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS DISCUSSION
DAVE?
WE'RE READY I THINK ASBA TWENTY
THREE DASH TO ZERO ZERO ZERO
EIGHT THIRTY THREE TEN
WASHTENAW AVENUE IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE ESTABLISHED STANDARDS
FOR APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A FIVE
FOOT VARIANCE FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT TWENTY POINT FOUR
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFERS.
A 15 FOOT BUFFER IS REQUIRED AT
THE REAR OF THE PARKING LOT.
THIS VARIANCE ALLOWS A TEN FOOT
BUFFER AND THE EXISTING
DRIVEWAY TO THE ADJACENT
PROPERTY TO REMAIN WHICH ALLOWS
ACCESS TO BOTH PROPERTIES.
THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE
SUPPORT.
THANK YOU DENHA TODD NO GRACE
NO I ABOUT NO DRAMA, NO MIKE,
NO DATE, NO CHRISTINA.
YES JULIA NO THE REQUEST
QUESTIONS TONIGHT MOVING ON TO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS WE HAVE
NONE NEW BUSINESS
.
LET'S BRING UP SOME UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S I WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE
RETREAT.
OH YES.
AND I WOULD LIKE TO TRY AND GET
A TENTATIVE DATE IF WE COULD.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
I SENT OUT THE EMAIL AND I
ALTERNATE BEING WITH MAY TWENTY
SECOND MONDAY MAY 22ND AND I'VE
HAD THREE RESPONSES THAT SAID
PEOPLE COULD NOT MAKE IT SO I
I'M ASSUMING THAT'S NOT GOING
TO BE A GOOD DATE BECAUSE I'M
TRYING TO GET AS MUCH
ATTENDANCE AS POSSIBLE SO WE
CAN HAVE THIS VALUABLE TRAINING
SESSION SO I'M GOING TO THROW
OUT TWO MORE DATES AND TELL ME
WHAT YOU ARE EVERYONE THINKS
HOW ABOUT EITHER FIVE MONDAY
MAY EIGHT OR MONDAY MAY 15TH.
LET'S JUST SAY ANYONE WHO CAN'T
MAKE A DATE LET'S JUST SAY LET
ME OUT.
>> RIGHT, OK, I CANNOT DO THE
EIGHTH BECAUSE I'LL BE IN THE
CZECH REPUBLIC.
>> I ALREADY SEE THE DRUG AGAIN
.
>> AT LEAST IT'S NOT YOU THEY
DON'T BUT IT'S KIND OF PREFER
JUST BASED ON THE WAY THIS
CALENDAR IS LOOKING WITH
RESERVING THE BASEMENT ROOM.
BUT IF I'M OPEN TO ANYTHING AT
THIS POINT, I'M JUST I KNOW I'M
NOT GOING TO GET ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT OF TENANTS TO GET
FIFTEEN PEOPLE ALL AGREE ON ONE
DATE IS NEXT TO IMPOSSIBLE BUT
I'M GOING TO TRY TO GET EIGHTY
FIVE OR 90 PERCENT IF I CAN GET
MOST LIKE THREE QUARTERS OR A
QUORUM AND PLUS LET'S JUST SAY
THAT EITHER ONE WORKS FOR ME SO
WE GET LIKE THAT ONE NO AND ONE
FOR EACH FIVE DENHA FIVE
FIFTEEN SO I CAN LIVE WITH IS
BAD FOR ME THE EIGHT TO NOSE
AND THE EIGHT THREE NOSE AND
EIGHT THREE NOSE AND THE EIGHT
SO I'M GOING TO THROW THE
EIGHTH OUT WITH TENTATIVELY SAY
MAYBE FIVE FIFTEEN I'LL HAVE TO
CHECK THE WHICH YOU HAVE TO
NOTICE.
YEAH WE CAN WE DON'T HAVE TO
HAVE WE'LL HAVE PLENTY OF TIME
FOR THOSE.
YEP.
AND I'LL CHECK THE ATTORNEY'S
OFFICE TO SEE IF THAT WORKS FOR
THEM AS WELL AND RESERVING THE
ROOM SO IT'S LOOKING LIKE I'M
GOING TO PUSH FOR MONDAY MAY
15TH.
>> IT HAS TO BE DONE BY THE END
OF MAY.
IT DOES NOT.
YEAH BUT WHY DO WE WANT TO GET
DO I WANT TO GET ACCOMPLISH AS
SOON AS POSSIBLE SINCE WE
HAVEN'T HAD A TRAINING SESSION
IN SO LONG DUE TO COVID AND I
FEEL LIKE WE HAVE A LOT OF NEW
MEMBERS AND IT'S A VALUABLE
SESSION AND I'D LIKE TO GET IT
DONE SOONER RATHER THAN LATER.
>> SO MAYBE WE SHOULD PEOPLE
YES I YEAH THAT'S A GOOD POINT
THAT YEAH.
>> SO I'M THINKING I ONLY HAVE
ONE NOW FOR FIVE FIFTEEN AND
THAT WAS THAT YOU DARMA ONE
OF THE NEW YORK CITY COUNCIL
ZIBA TRUMPS THIS TRUMPS
EVERYTHING ZIBA I WOULD THINK
WOULD BE PARTICULARLY IMPORTANT
TO OUR CITY COUNCIL LIAISON GO
THROUGH THE TRAINING SO WE GET
THEM WE GET THAT OR MAYBE GET
INTO SUMMER AND WE START
TALKING ABOUT EVERYONE'S SUMMER
PLANS AND SUMMER VACATIONS AND
SCHOOL CAMPS AND THE WHATNOT.
>> IF THE MEETING ROOM IS IS
THE OBSTACLE I THINK I COULD
FIND A SURPRISE.
I'M GOING TO DO IT ON MY DOOR.
I CAN HAVE A MEETING ROOM.
I'M NOT I'M NOT WORRIED ABOUT
THAT AS I AM SO MUCH AS THE
DATE I'LL MAKE THE MEETING ROOM
WORK SO MONDAYS ARE OUT
COMPLETELY OK, THIS IS GOING
SWIMMINGLY FOR SURE.
>> MAKE IT WORK OK I WILL.
>> HOW ABOUT TUESDAY THE 16TH.
ANYBODY
HAVE AN ISSUE WITH THAT
.
>> OH AND A NEW MEMBER
WEDNESDAY THE 17TH.
>> HOW ABOUT SATURDAY YOU KNOW
SATURDAY I DO THAT OR IS THE
CITY FEEDING IF IT'S I MAY I
MAY HAVE TO REGROUP AND WE MAY
HAVE TO PUSH IT TO JUNE THEN
AND I'LL JUST START SENDING OUT
EMAILS THAT WAY I GUESS.
YEAH MAYBE JUST GET COLLECTION
OF DATES AND SEND OUT A POLL
AND HAVE EVERYBODY RESPOND TO
THE ONES THAT THEY CAN ATTEND
AND ONCE THEY CAN GO FROM THERE
SORRY WE'RE IMPOSSIBLE.
>> THAT'S OK.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THAT'S ALL MY BUSINESS FOR NOW
JOHN WE COULD MAYBE NOT BEFORE
WE MOVE THIS YEAR WE'RE LOOKING
AT MONDAY, WEDNESDAY AND
TUESDAY BUT THERE'S ALSO
THURSDAY.
>> GRACE, AS YOU SAID, YOU'RE
NOT AVAILABLE.
>> OK, OK.
ALL PEOPLE NOT AVAILABLE
TUESDAYS, THURSDAYS, MONDAY.
>> SO HOW ABOUT SO SO SO WE'RE
LOOKING AT WEDNESDAYS
WEDNESDAYS.
>> GOOD FOR EVERYBODY WEDNESDAY
THEY GOOD SO WEDNESDAY THE
WEDNESDAY THE SEVENTEENTH IF I
MAY HAVE A PROBLEM THAT DAY WE
GOT YOUR YOU CAN TEACH THE
CLASS CANDICE YOU'VE BEEN ON
THE TZVIA YOU'RE MAKING TWO
YEARS NOW OLD JOHN IT'S ONLY
BEEN SEVENTEEN YEARS I'M SORRY
SEVENTEEN IT'S WEDNESDAY THE
SEVENTEENTH I CAN'T I GOT
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION THIS
IS HOW WEDNESDAY THE TWENTY
FOURTH THAT'S I MEAN WEDNESDAY
THE THIRTY FIRST I MEAN THAT ON
WEDNESDAY THE THIRTY FIRST
BELGIUM THE CHOPPER HOW MANY
ITEMS DO WE HAVE ON THE AGENDA
FOR ME DO WE KNOW OR SIX OH
YEAH NO
TUESDAY THE THIRTIETH
VACATION I'M JUST INDIVIDUALS
FORGET ME AND LEAVE ME OUT
OF THIS I THINK I'M THE MOST
DIFFICULT ONE.
>> YEAH.
ALL RIGHT I'LL AGREE WITH
EVERYTHING THAT FOLKS YEAH YEAH
YEAH WE'LL FIGURE IT OUT.
YEAH.
>> GOOD LUCK.
I'M GOING TO TRY REALLY HARD.
YEAH UM YES I KNOW.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON NEW BUSINESS WE
ADDRESSED WITH PUBLIC HEARINGS
COMMUNICATIONS WE'VE DISCUSSED
PUBLIC COMMENT IF ANYONE FROM
THE PUBLIC WISHES TO SPEAK
NOW'S THE TIME PRESS NINE TO
RAISE YOUR HAND OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FUNCTION WE'D BE
HAPPY TO HEAR FROM, YOU KNOW,
COLOR.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT SAID, DO I HAVE A MOTION
TO ADJOURN?
THANK SUPPORT.
>> SUPPORT.
THANK YOU, DAVE.
ALL IN FAVOR OPPOSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED.
THANKS EVERYONE.